N.B. This is a consolidated version and is therefore a compilation.

The printed regulation in Swedish is the official, valid version. A
consolidated version is a full-text version in which all amendments have
been inserted into the original regulation.

This translation is furnished solely for information purposes. Only the printed version of the regulation in Swedish applies for the application of the law.

If institutions translate their annual accounts to English they may use other headings for the line items in the balance sheet and income statement
Finansinspektionen’s Regulatory Code
Publisher: Finansinspektionen, Sweden, www.fi.se
ISSN 1102-7460

Finansinspektionen’s regulations and general guidelines

regarding annual accounts for credit institutions and
securities companies;
Consolidated electronic issue
Last updated: 23/11/2018
Please note that only the printed edition in Swedish applies for the application of the law.

Decided:
10/11/2008
Entry into force:
01/01/2009


Amendments:
FFFS 2009:11, FFFS 2011:54, FFFS 2013:2, FFFS 2013:24, FFFS
2014:18, FFFS 2015:20, FFFS 2017:18, FFFS 2018:20

Chapter 1 Scope and definitions
Section 1 These regulations and general guidelines shall be applied by credit
institutions and securities companies when preparing their annual report,
consolidated financial statements and interim reports in accordance with the
Annual Accounts for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies Act
(1995:1559).

The rules in sections 2 and 3 and in Chapters 7 and 8 apply to financial holding
companies that in accordance with Chapter 1, section 1 of the Annual Accounts for
Credit Institutions and Securities Companies Act shall apply the provisions for
consolidated financial statements in Chapter 7 of the same act. (FFFS 2017:18)
The rules in sections 2 and 3, Chapters 2–4, Chapter 5, sections 21, 22 and 24 and
Chapter 6 apply for the branches of foreign credit institutions and securities
companies that shall apply the Annual Accounts for Credit Institutions and
Securities Companies Act when preparing their annual report in accordance with
Chapter 6, section 3a of the Bookkeeping Act (1999:1078). (FFFS 2017:18)
The rules in sections 2 and 3 and Chapters 2–4 apply to the branches of foreign
credit institutions and securities companies that shall apply the Annual Accounts
for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies Act when preparing their annual
accounts in accordance with Chapter 6, section 3a of the Bookkeeping Act. (FFFS
2017:18)



Definitions
Section 2 In these regulations and general guidelines, the following definitions apply:
1. approved international financial reporting standards: International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Commission in accordance with
Article 3 of Regulation (EC) no. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 19 July 2002 on the Application of International Accounting Standards
(the IAS Regulation),
2. institution: unless otherwise indicated, a) credit institutions and securities companies, b) financial holding companies when they apply these rules for
consolidated accounts, and c) branch offices when they apply the rules for annual
reports or annual accounts,
3. institutions with an international connection: an institution that conducts cross-border operations or has one or several branch offices in another country or is part
of the same group as at least one foreign financial undertaking, i.e. a foreign
undertaking that is the equivalent of a credit institution, securities company or
insurance undertaking,
4. international financial reporting standards: International Accounting Standards (IAS), International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), interpretations from
Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC) and interpretations from IFRS
Interpretations Committee (IFRIC),
5. listed institutions: institutions whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market in the European Economic Area (EEA), i.e. institutions covered
by Article 4 of the IAS Regulation,
6. unlisted institutions: institutions that are not listed institutions, and
7. taken-over property: property that the institution acquired to protect a claim in accordance with Chapter 7, sections 3 and 5 of the Banking and Financing
Business Act (2004:297) or Chapter 7, section 10 of the Securities Market Act
(2007:528), (FFFS 2013:2)

Exemption
Section 3 Finansinspektionen decides on exemption from these regulations where
special grounds exist.


Chapter 2 General provisions regarding the annual accounts
Generally accepted accounting principles
Section 1 An institution shall apply a rule in approved international financial reporting standards if it is in agreement with the Annual Accounts for Credit
Institutions and Securities Companies Act (1995:1559) and these regulations. In
other cases, the corresponding regulation in Annual Accounts for Credit
Institutions and Securities Companies Act and these regulations shall apply.


An institution does not need to apply a rule in approved international financial
reporting standards that is in agreement with the Annual Accounts for Credit
Institutions and Securities Companies Act and these regulations if it instead applies
a corresponding regulation in Swedish Financial Reporting Board
Recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. (FFFS 2013:2)

General guidelines
An institution should not write up financial assets in accordance with
Chapter 4, section 6 of the Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554), cf. Chapter 4,
section 1 of the Annual Accounts for Credit Institutions and Securities
Companies Act (1995:1559), or apply other options set out by law that are
not in agreement with approved international financial reporting standards
unless otherwise specified by these regulations.

The following clarifications are provided for the standards below:
a) IFRS 8 Operating Segments. This standard only needs to be applied by an
institution covered by the standard’s area of application.

b) IAS 33 Earnings per Share. This standard only needs to be applied by an
institution covered by the standard’s area of application.

c) IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards. Easement regulations in the standard may be applied to the extent
they are in agreement with point 1 relating to IFRS 1 in RFR 2 Accounting
for Legal Entities. (FFFS 2013:2)
Section 2 For it to be determined that an institution controls another undertaking requires, in addition to fulfilment of the conditions in IFRS 10 Consolidated
Financial Statements, that the institution holds a participation in the undertaking, cf. Chapter 1, section 4 of the Annual Accounts for Credit Institutions and
Securities Companies Act (1995:1559) and Chapter 1, section 4 of the Annual
Accounts Act (1995:1554).

If the institution does not hold a participation in the other undertaking but in
accordance with IFRS 10 still controls the other undertaking, the institution shall
disclose information regarding this situation in a note. In such a case the other
undertaking shall state in a note, if it is an institution, which undertaking controls
without participations and how the influence can be exercised. (FFFS 2013:24)

Chapter 3 Balance sheet and profit and loss statement
Content in the balance sheet and profit and loss statement
Section 1 Items on the balance sheet shall have the content specified in
Appendix 1. The items in the profit and loss statement shall have the content specified in Appendix 2.


General guidelines
Except for tangible and intangible assets (Assets, item 10), neither current
assets and non-current assets nor short-term and long-term liabilities need to
be classified separately in the balance sheet, cf. IAS 1 Presentation of
Financial Statements. Further additions to and exceptions from IAS 1 are set



out in the Swedish Financial Reporting Board Recommendation RFR 2
Accounting for Legal Entities.


An institution should report in the profit and loss statement the subtotals indicated
in Appendix 3. (FFFS 2015:20)

Deviations from the balance sheet layout
Section 21 Deviations in accordance with Chapter 3, section 1, second paragraph of the Annual Accounts for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies Act
(1995:1559) due to the character and relative liquidity of the items are only
permitted if
1. the deviation refers to the balance sheet,
2. the deviation is necessary to apply approved international financial reporting
standards, and
3. the information that is provided must be at least the same level of information
that would have been provided if the layout had been followed.


General guidelines
This paragraph clarifies when a deviation from the layout is permitted in
accordance with the Annual Accounts for Credit Institutions and Securities
Companies Act and the EU Directive. This only refers to the layout of the
balance sheet. The same act also states that deviations can only be made by
listed institutions and those unlisted institutions that are covered by a
consolidated financial statement that is prepared in accordance with the IAS
Regulation.


Pension commitments for employees
Section 3 An institution shall make a provision in its balance sheet for pension commitments for employees that are not covered by pension insurance or
specifically separated assets (pension trust or the equivalent).

Institutions whose reported pension liabilities in the balance sheet or capital in
specifically separated assets exceed the capital value of the pension commitments
for employees shall not report the surplus in the balance sheet.

The first and second paragraphs do not apply to defined-benefit plans that are
reported in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits. (FFFS 2013:2)

Pledged property
Section 42 Assets shall be reported under the relevant balance sheet headings even when they have been pledged as collateral for own liabilities or those of third
parties, or have otherwise been assigned as collateral to third parties.

An institution may not include in its balance sheet assets pledged or otherwise
assigned to it as collateral, unless such assets are in the form of cash in hand of
that institution.


1Article 4a of Directive 86/635/EEC.

2 Article 8 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

Syndicated loans
Section 53 In the event a loan has been granted by a syndicate consisting of a number of institutions, each participating institution shall only report its portion of
the entire loan in its balance sheet.

An institution that has provided a guarantee for an amount greater than the
institution’s share of a syndicated loan, shall report the difference in the note
regarding contingent liability, unless the guarantee is a commitment that is to be
reported on the balance sheet. (FFFS 2015:20)

Managed assets
Section 64 Funds that an institution manages under its own name on behalf of a third party are reported in the balance sheet, if the institution is entitled to have the assets at its disposal.

Assets that were acquired in the name of a third party and on its behalf must not be
reported in the balance sheet.


General guidelines
In order to be entitled to have the funds at its disposal in accordance with
section 6, first paragraph, the institution must be a securities company with
authorisation to receive funds on account from customers in accordance with
Chapter 2, section 2, first paragraph, point 8 of the Securities Market Act
(2007:528) or it must be a credit institution. (FFFS 2013:2)

Taken-over property
Section 7 Taken-over property shall be reported under the same asset item as
property of a similar class that was acquired in a different manner. Income and
expenses that refer to taken-over property shall in the same manner be distributed
as other income and expenses in the profit and loss statement. For properties that
an institution has taken over to protect a claim, rental income is reported under
other operating income and operating expenses under other operating expenses.


Repos and other repurchase transactions
Section 85 A repurchase transaction is a contract whereby the parties have agreed on a sale of assets (for example bills of exchange, receivables or transferable
securities) as well as a subsequent repurchase of equivalent assets at a fixed price.

The transferor is the party who sells in the spot leg of a repurchase transaction. The transferee is the party who buys in the spot leg of a repurchase transaction.

If the transferee undertakes to sell back the assets on a date that has been
determined or is to be determined by the transferor, the transaction is a genuine
repurchase transaction. In that case the assets shall continue to be recognised
in the transferor’s balance sheet and the purchase consideration received
recognised as a liability. The transferee shall not recognise the assets in its balance

3 Article 9 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

4 Article 10 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

5 Article 12 of Directive 86/635/EEC.




sheet, but recognise the purchase consideration paid as a receivable from the
transferor.

If the transferee has a right, but not an obligation, to return the assets at a
predetermined price, the transaction is a sale with the option to sell back the assets
( non-genuine repurchase transaction). In such a case, it is not the transferor, but the transferee who shall recognise the assets in its balance sheet.

A non-genuine repurchase transaction shall nevertheless be recognised as a genuine
repurchase transaction if it is evident that the option to return the assets will be
exercised.

The following transactions shall not be considered repurchase transactions:
1. Forward foreign exchange transactions
2. Options instruments
3. Transactions that encompass the issuance of a debt instrument with a
commitment to repurchase all or parts of the issue before maturity
4. Other similar transactions.


General guidelines
A distinction is made in the fifth paragraph to separate repurchase
transactions from certain other types of financial contracts. If, however, the
assets are covered by repurchase contracts, the rules also apply for such a
repurchase contract.


Spot purchases and spot sales
Section 9 Spot purchases and spot sales shall be recognised on the transaction
date. With regard to transactions on the Swedish market, spot purchases and sales
refer to agreements with delivery within two banking days on the money, bond or
stock markets and the commodities or currency markets. (FFFS 2015:20)

Held-for-trading
Section 10 Held-for-trading securities in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial
Instruments should be reported as Held for trading purposes in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554). (FFFS 2017:18)

Equity
Section 11 The division of equity into restricted and non-restricted equity does not need to be shown on the balance sheet or in the notes if it is instead clear from a
statement of changes in equity. The statement of changes in equity shall form part
of the annual financial statements. (FFFS 2015:20)

Chapter 4 Valuation rules
Valuation of taken-over property
Section 1 Taken-over property shall be classified as a current asset in accordance with the Annual Accounts for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies Act
(1995:1559). If the property is a financial asset, it shall be classified as a financial asset that is reported at fair value through profit or loss or – if the conditions for
such reporting are met – at fair value through other comprehensive income. If the
property is tangible property, it shall be measured as inventories. (FFFS 2017:18)
General guidelines
This section sets out how taken-over property shall be treated in a valuation
context. Taken-over property is defined in Chapter 1, section 2. Rules for the
valuation of financial assets measured at fair value and inventories are set
out in International Financial Reporting Standards, cf. IFRS 13 Fair Value
Measurement and IAS 2 Inventories. (FFFS 2017:18)

Net realisable value and fair value for taken-over real estate
Section 2 When deciding net realisable value for real estate that is taken-over
property, the realisable value shall be the price at which the real estate is sold on
the closing date given a voluntary, publically exposed offer on a market that
permits orderly disposal and that has a reasonable amount of time available for the
negotiation of the sale.

The realisable value shall as a minimum be determined once a year via a separate
valuation. Where special cause exists, the valuation of the single-family homes
with limited value may be based on general information about price levels for such
type of object.

The valuation shall be carried out by a competent valuer in accordance with
recognised and accepted valuation methods. For each piece of real estate, the
method or combination of methods shall be chosen that best reflects the realisable
value on the closing date. The valuation shall be documented in writing for each
piece of real estate, including information about when, how and on what grounds
and by whom the valuation was carried out.

The provisions in the first-third paragraphs and section 1 shall also be applied to
real estate that has been taken over by companies in the same group.


General guidelines
In accordance with the third paragraph, the valuation may be carried out by
in-house personnel or external valuation consultants if they fulfil the general
qualification requirement. This means that the valuer should have sufficient
theoretical and practical knowledge about how the valuation is carried out
and otherwise be familiar with the real estate market in general and in
particular the specific real estate’s local market conditions.

The valuer can apply the following methods or combinations of methods to
determine the realisable value:
1. Sales comparison method
This method is based on market analyses. This means that the real estate’s
value is assessed taking into consideration prices paid for similar real estate,
comparable objects, on a free and open market. Access to relevant market
data is therefore a deciding factor for the quality of the valuation. In order to
do the analysis, the prices must be related to factors that impact value.




2. Cash flow method
This method is also based on market analyses but is an investment
calculation. It is based on a set calculation period, during which the cash
flows and the future residual value are discounted to a present value, i.e. an
estimated realisable value.

The future cash flows are estimated and determined from the current
conditions for each property. In such cases, leases, lease developments,
vacancies and vacancy rates, the developments of operating and maintenance
costs and neglected maintenance, are assessed. Interest expenses and other
financing costs are not taken into consideration in the flows. The
assessments of future lease levels, vacancies and cost development should
reflect the market’s expectations and outlook.

Risks associated with each property are taken into consideration in the flows.

Other risks are taken into consideration when the cost of capital and required
return are determined. The required return corresponds to the market’s return
requirements for similar objects.

The present value of any interest contributions should be calculated
separately in the flow.


Application of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
Section 3 An institution shall not apply point 2 regarding IFRS 9 Financial
Instruments in RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities on exemptions from IFRS 9.

(FFFS 2017:18)

Leasing
Section 4 A lessor that, pursuant to RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities, reports a financial leasing agreement as an operational leasing agreement
– may depreciate the leased assets in accordance with the annuity method, even if
this would not be consistent with IFRS 16 Leases, cf. IFRS 16 point 84, and
– should apply the rules for financial leasing agreements in terms of impairment
losses and reversals of impairment losses for the leased asset, cf. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, points 2.1(b)(i), 5.5.1 and 5.5.15(b). (FFFS 2017:18)

Social security contributions
Section 5 Social security contributions attributable to equity instruments to
employees as remuneration for purchased services shall be expensed across the
periods during which the services are performed. Cost shall then be calculated
using the same valuation model that was used when the options were issued. An
institution shall re-evaluate the provision that is made at every reporting occasion
based on a calculation of the social security contributions that may be paid when
the instrument is redeemed. (FFFS 2013:2)

Tax on returns
Section 6 An institution that has chosen to apply IAS 19 Employee Benefits to its defined-benefit pension plans shall regularly report the tax on returns that are
charged to provisions in the balance sheet in the profit for the period to which the
tax refers. Such tax on returns shall not be included when calculating liabilities of
defined-benefit pension plans. (FFFS 2013:2)

Chapter 5 Disclosures
Balance Sheet
Treasury bills eligible for refinancing, etc.

Section 16 In the balance sheet or a note, the item “Treasury bills eligible for refinancing etc.” (Assets, item 2) is divided into the following sub-items and has
the content set out in section 3, first paragraph of Appendix 1:
1. Sub-item 2.a, Treasury bills eligible for refinancing.

2. Sub-item 2.b, Other securities eligible for refinancing.


Bonds and other interest-bearing securities
Section 27 In the balance sheet or in a note the item “Bonds and other interest-bearing securities” (Assets, item 5) are divided into the following sub-items:
1. Sub-item 5.a, Issued by public bodies.

2. Sub-item 5.b, Issued by other borrowers.


Disclosures about securities
Section 38 Each of the items “Bonds and other interest-bearing securities” (Assets, item 5), “Shares and participations” (that are not included in items 7, 8 or 9) (Assets, item 6), “Shares and participations in associates and joint ventures”
(Assets, item 7), “Shares and participations in Group companies” (Assets, item 8)
and “Shareholdings in other companies” (Assets, item 9), when applying IFRS 13
Fair Value Measurement, shall be divided in the note into levels 1, 2 or 3 in
accordance with the fair value hierarchy. (FFFS 2017:18)

Maturity information
Section 4 The reported values for each of the items “Loans and advances to credit institutions” (Assets, item 3), “Loans to the public” (Assets, item 4), “Liabilities to
credit institutions” (Liabilities, provisions and equity, item 1), Deposits and
borrowings from the public – Deposits” (Liabilities, provisions and equity, item
2.a), “Deposits and borrowings from the public – Borrowings” (Liabilities,
provisions and equity, item 2.b) and “Issued securities, etc. – Other” (Liabilities,
provisions and equity, item 3.b) an institution shall state the agreed undiscounted
cash flows in a note broken down into:
1. repayable on demand,
2. remaining maturity of not more than 3 months,
3. remaining maturity of more than 3 months but not more than 1 year,
4. remaining maturity of more than 1 year but not more than 5 years, and
5. remaining maturity longer than 5 years.


6 Article 4 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

7Article 4 and 17 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

8Article 41.2 a of Directive 86/635/EEC.




For each of the following items “Treasury bills eligible for refinancing etc.”
(Assets, item 2), “Bonds and other interest-bearing securities” (Assets, item 5) and
“Issued securities, etc. – Issued debt securities” (Liabilities, provisions and equity,
item 3.a), the agreed undiscounted cash flows shall be stated for the assets and
liabilities that have a remaining maturity of not more than 1 year. The disclosures
shall be provided in the same note that contains the disclosures referred to in the
first paragraph. (FFFS 2013:24)
The remaining maturity for liabilities and receivables shall be calculated as the
period until the date on which each instalment falls due. The residual maturity of
agreements with periodically restricted terms shall be calculated as the time up
until the next date for a change in terms.

Repayable on demand shall only refer to those amounts that can be withdrawn
without notice or for which a period of notice of one working day has been agreed.


Holdings in credit institutions
Section 59 For each of the items “Shares and participations in associates and joint ventures” (Assets, item 7), “Shares and participations in Group companies”
(Assets, item 8) and “Shareholdings in other companies” (Assets, item 9), the
amount held in credit institutions shall be indicated in a note. (FFFS 2015:20)

Leasing transactions
Section 610 For each of the items on the balance sheet, details of the value of leasing transactions shall be provided in a note.

In the note to “Tangible assets – Leased assets” (Assets, item 11.b) information
shall be provided on the method and principles of depreciation applied in order to
determine the residual value of different types of leased assets and the depreciation
periods applicable to different types of assets, as well as the method applied for
revenue accrual. If the residual value of a leasing object is guaranteed by the
supplier or a third party and the guaranteed amount is of significant important, this
should also be specified.


The note shall indicate the carrying amount of repossessed leased assets. (FFFS
2015:20)

Buildings and land in own operations
Section 711 For the item “Tangible assets” (Assets, item 11) disclosures shall be provided of the carrying amount of owner-occupied properties and their share of
the carrying amount of all properties. (FFFS 2015:20)

General guidelines
Owner-occupied properties are defined in IAS 40 Investment Property.



9 Article 4 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

10 Article 41.2 (c) of Directive 86/635/EEC.

11 Article 4 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

10

Pledged assets
Section 812 The note containing disclosures about pledged assets shall have at least the following two sub-headings: 1. Pledged assets and equivalent collateral
provided for own liabilities and for provisions for reported liabilities and 2. Other
pledged assets and equivalent collateral.

Under the first sub-heading, details are given of the collateral that the institution
has pledged for its own liabilities and provisions.

Under the second sub-heading, details are given of the securities that the institution
has pledged for other than its own liabilities and provisions, such as collateral
pledged for third parties or for its own contingent liabilities.

For each of the liability items, the provisions and the contingent liabilities, the note shall also indicate the total amounts of assets pledged as collateral for own or third-party obligations. (FFFS 2015:20)

Contingent liabilities
Section 8a13 The note containing disclosures about contingent liabilities shall have as a minimum the following two sub-headings: 1. Contingent liabilities, and 2.

Commitments.

Under the first sub-heading, details are given of “Acceptances and endorsements”
and “Guarantees”. The guarantees include all guarantee obligations entered into for
third party obligations, including sureties and irrevocable letters of credit.

Under the second sub-heading, details are given of such irrevocable commitments
that involve risk-taking. These are divided into “Commitments resulting from
repurchase transactions” and “Other contingent liabilities”. Undertakings that were
made in connection with non-genuine repurchase transactions are reported under
Commitments resulting from repurchase transactions. The transferor shall take up
the strike price of the sell option specified in the transaction. Under “Other
contingent liabilities”, details are given of, among other things, such irrevocable
commitments that result from the on-lending of borrowed securities. (FFFS
2015:20)

Managed assets
Section 914 For each of the items in the balance sheet, an institution shall specify in a note the sum of the funds managed in its own name but on behalf of a third
party, see Chapter 3, section 6, first paragraph. (FFFS 2013:2)
Section 9a Disclosures shall be provided in a note of the sum of assets acquired in the name of a third party and on its own account and that are not recognised in the
balance sheet, see Chapter 3, section 6, second paragraph. (FFFS 2013:2)


12 Articles 24, 25 and 40(3)(d) of Directive 86/635/EEC.

13Articles 12(5), 24 and 25 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

14 Article 10 of Directive 86/635/EEC.



11


Subordinated assets
Section 1015 For each of the asset items, information shall be provided in a note about the amount that refers to subordinated assets.


Subordinated assets are assets which, in the event of winding up or bankruptcy,
whether or not represented by securities, are to be repaid only after the claims of
other creditors have been met. (FFFS 2015:20)
Profit and loss statement
Interest rates
Section 1116 “Interest income” (item 1) shall be specified in a note divided into interest income on interest-bearing securities (Assets, items 2 and 5), and other
interest income.

Lessors shall provide disclosures about its total “net interest income”. The total net
interest income means the sum of
a) interest income,
b) leasing income from financial leasing agreements in accordance with IFRS 16
Leases, even from leases reported as operational leasing,
c) interest expenses, and
d) depreciation according to plan for assets covered by financial leasing under
IFRS 16, but that are reported as operational leasing.


Leasing
Section 12 In a note to the item “Lease income” (item 2), information is provided about the leasing income’s gross amount and depreciation according to plan.


Dividends received
Section 1317 In the income statement or in the note, the item “Dividends received”
(item 4) shall be divided into
1. sub-item 4.a: Dividends from shares and participations (Assets, item 6),
2. sub-item 4.b: Dividends from associates and joint ventures (Assets, item 7),
3. sub-item 4.c: Dividends from Group companies (Assets, item 8), and
4. sub-item 4.d: Dividends from shareholdings in other companies (Assets, item 9).

(FFFS 2015:20)

Remuneration and benefits for management
Section 14 Provisions concerning information about remuneration and benefits for management can be found in Chapter 5, sections 1 and 2 of the Annual Accounts
for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies Act (1995:1559), cf. Chapter 5,
sections 40–44 of the Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554). (FFFS 2015:20)


15 Article 6 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

16 Article 27 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

17 Article 27 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

12

General guidelines
Disclosures about significant conditions in agreements with key
management personnel regarding future pensions and similar benefits after
terminated employment should also include the following information:
– whether pensions are defined contribution or defined benefit,
– the cost for the financial year in relation to pensionable remuneration for
defined-contribution plans,
– the cost for the financial year in relation to pensionable remuneration for
defined-benefit plans, and
– for defined-benefit plans: the pension level expressed in relation to
pensionable remuneration or, where appropriate, in Swedish krona if the
pension is conditional on future employment.

Disclosures about other remuneration in accordance with Chapter 5, section
40 of the Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) also includes work other than as
a Board member or another member of executive management. This
remuneration refers in addition to the fees for assignments that belong to the
board member’s normal professional activities, for example as a lawyer or
consultant. It is irrelevant whether the remuneration for the work is paid
directly to the person, to a company or to another third party.

The term “key management personnel” is defined in accordance with IAS 24
Related Party Disclosures. Key management personnel should also be
considered part of the management in the application of Chapter 5, section
40, third paragraph, section 41, second paragraph, and section 44 of the
Annual Accounts Act. (FFFS 2015:20)

Impairment of financial non-current assets
Section 1518 For each of the items “Impairment of financial non-current assets”
(item 13) and “Reversals of impairment of financial non-current assets” (item 14),
the impairment losses and reversals of significance shall be disclosed in a note.

(FFFS 2017:18)

Geographic distribution of income
Section 1619 Information shall be provided in a note of how the sum of the amounts for the following items is distributed by geographical area: “Interest
income” (item 1), “Leasing income” (item 2), “Dividends received” (item 4),
“Commissions receivable” (item 5), “Net profit or net loss on financial operations”
(item 7) and “Other operating income” (item 8).

General guidelines
What constitutes the different geographical areas should be determined in
accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.



18 Article 34.3 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

19 Article 40.5 of Directive 86/635/EEC.



13


Costs of subordinated liabilities
Section 1720 Information shall be provided in a note regarding costs for
“Subordinated liabilities” (Liabilities, provisions and equity, item 7).


Management and agency services
Section 1821 Information shall be provided in a note regarding management and intermediary services provided by a third party to the extent that the scope of the
activities are significant in relation to the institution’s total operations.


Foreign currency
Section 1922 Information shall be disclosed about the total value of assets and liabilities in foreign currency.


Compliance
Section 20 An undertaking shall, in its annual report, state the regulation title and regulation number of the Finansinspektionen regulations and general guidelines
that have been applied. The undertaking shall also state whether it has prepared its
annual report and its consolidated financial statements according to these
regulations.


General guidelines
The undertaking should, in further detail, state which standard in the field of
accounting it has applied in addition to the Annual Accounts for Credit
Institutions and Securities Companies Act (1995:1559) and these regulations
and general guidelines. (FFFS 2011:54)

Non-reversed impairments
Section 21 Rules for impairment made before entry into force of the Annual
Accounts for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies Act (1995:1559) are set
out in point 5 of the transition regulations for the implementation of the Annual
Accounts Act (1995:1554). Information that an impairment has not been reversed
due to this transition regulation shall be provided in a note. The effect of such a
non-reversed impairment on the institution’s position and profit or loss shall be
provided in a note. (FFFS 2013:2)

Equity
Section 22 Repealed through (FFFS 2015:20).



20 Article 41.2e of Directive 86/635/EEC.

21 Article 41.2f of Directive 86/635/EEC.

22 Article 41.2g of Directive 86/635/EEC.

14

Small unlisted securities companies
Section 23 An unlisted securities companies whose balance sheet total for the two most recent financial years does not exceed 1,000 basic amounts in accordance
with Chapter 2, section 7 of the Social Insurance Code (2010:110) only needs to
provide disclosures in accordance with the following approved international
financial reporting standards:
– IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.

– IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.

– IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.

– IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. (FFFS 2017:18)
– IFRS 16 Leases with the exceptions and additions made in section 1 in relation to IFRS 16 in RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. (FFFS 2018:20)
– IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, in the section on capital disclosures.

– IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows.

– IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period.

– IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, with the additions made in section 4 in
relation to IAS 16 in RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities.

– IAS 19 Employee Benefits, with the exemptions and additions set out by point 1
regarding IAS 19 in RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities, if the pension
commitment is of a significant nature.

– IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.

– IAS 23 Borrowing Costs.

– IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.

– IAS 38 Intangible Assets, with the additions set out in points 3 and 6 regarding IAS 38 in RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. (FFFS 2017:18)
– IAS 40 Investment Property, with the addition made in section 3 in relation to IAS 40 in RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities.

The first paragraph shall not apply if the institution
– prepares or is covered by consolidated financial statements, or
– has an international connection.

In the note that describes the accounting policies applied, the institution shall
indicate whether it has applied disclosure reliefs. (FFFS 2015:20)

Branches of foreign undertakings
Section 24 Branches of a foreign undertaking that corresponds to a credit
institution, securities company or insurance undertaking do not need to provide
disclosures in accordance with approved International Financial Reporting
Standards or RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. (FFFS 2013:2)
Section 25 An institution that does not prepare consolidated accounts because it does not own participations in subsidiaries but conducts operations by establishing
foreign branches shall provide information in its annual report in accordance with
Chapter 7, section 4. (FFFS 2014:18)


15


Chapter 6 Management report and capital adequacy analysis
Management report
Section 1 The information that shall be provided in the management report in
accordance with these regulations may be provided in a different part of the annual
report. In such cases, the management report shall contain a reference to the place
where this information can be found. (FFFS 2013:2)

Five-year overview
Section 2 Key financial figures and a summary of the profit and loss statement and balance sheet shall be reported in a multi-year overview covering at least the past
five years.

The five-year summary shall be prepared in accordance with the accounting
principles that are applied in the most recent annual report, unless this type of
conversion is particularly complex. If no conversion has been implemented by the
institution, this shall be specified and the reasons listed. (FFFS 2013:2)
Section 2a An institution shall disclose in its annual report key indicators regarding the yield on assets, calculated as the net profit divided by the balance
sheet total. (FFFS 2014:18)

Capital adequacy analysis
Section 3 A capital adequacy analysis shall be included in the annual report in
accordance with Chapter 2, section 1 and Chapter 6, section 3 of the Annual
Accounts for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies Act (1995:1559). The
analysis shall refer in part to the institution on its own and in part to the the
consolidated situation in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EU) No
575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2014 on
prudential requirements for credit institutions and securities companies and
modifying Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 to which the institution belongs as the
parent company.

If an institution has a financial parent holding company or a mixed financial parent
holding company and is obligated to meet the requirements set out in Article 11.2
of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions
and securities companies for the consolidated situation to which the institution
belongs as a subsidiary, the institution’s capital adequacy analysis shall refer to this group.

If an institution is obliged to report capital adequacy for a financial conglomerate
to a supervisory authority, the institution’s capital adequacy analysis shall also
refer to this conglomerate. (FFFS 2014:18)
Section 4 The capital adequacy analysis shall provide, for the institution and
where applicable for the consolidated situation in accordance with Article 18 of
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and
securities companies, the information set out in Articles 92.3(d) and (f), 436,
437(b) and 438 of the same regulation and in Chapter 8, section 7 of
Finansinspektionen’s regulations (FFFS 2014:12) regarding prudential
requirements and capital buffers. Until 31 December 2017, this information shall
16

also be provided in the analysis set out in Column A of Appendix 6 of Commission
Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013 of 20 December 2013 laying down
implementing technical standards with regard to disclosure of own funds
requirements for institutions according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the
European Parliament and of the Council23. As of 1 January 2018, the information set out in Appendix 4 of the same regulation shall be provided in the analysis. It
shall be clear which information refers to the institution and which information
refers to the group.

Other information that shall be provided in accordance with Regulation (EU) No
575/2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and securities
companies may be provided in the annual report. If the information is submitted in
the annual report, it should be in the capital adequacy analysis. If the information is
submitted in another place in the annual report, the capital adequacy shall contain a
reference to its location.

The capital adequacy analysis for a financial conglomerate shall provide
information about the own funds and capital requirements as well as the methods
referred to in Chapter 5, section 4 of the Special Supervision of Financial
Conglomerates Act (2006:531) that were used for the calculation. (FFFS 2014:18)
Section 5 Information shall be provided regarding how new or amended
international financial reporting standards, which have been published but not yet
applied, will affect the capital requirement, own funds and large exposures at the
time of the transition. Amounts shall be stated unless there are practical obstacles
to doing so. (FFFS 2013:2)

Chapter 7 Consolidated financial statements
Section 1 Repealed through (FFFS 2009:11).


Subsidiaries that are not consolidated
Section 1a The parent company shall specify any subsidiaries not covered by the consolidated financial statements. Key ratios shall be presented for these
subsidiaries.

Section 1b Repealed through (FFFS 2009:11).


Consolidated financial statements
Section 2 International financial reporting standards as adopted by the European Commission in accordance with Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of
international accounting standards (IAS Regulation), shall be applied when
preparing consolidated financial statements, irrespective of whether the institution
is listed or unlisted; cf. Chapter 7, Section 8 of the Annual Accounts for Credit
Institutions and Securities Companies Act (1995:1559).

A parent company shall disclose equivalent information for the Group as required
under
a) Chapter 5, section 14 regarding remuneration and benefits for management,

23 EUT L 355, 31.12.2013, p. 60 (Celex 32013R1423).



17


b) Chapter 5, section 20 regarding regulatory compliance, and
c) Chapter 6, sections 2–5 regarding the five-year overview and capital adequacy
analysis.

Disclosures under (c) may be provided other than in the Management Report. In
such cases, the Management Report shall contain a reference to the place where
this information can be found. (FFFS 2015:20)

General guidelines
An institution should apply Recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary
Accounting Rules for Corporate Groups of the Swedish Financial Reporting
Board in the consolidated financial statements. This recommendation should
be applied with the exceptions and additions of the provisions of the Annual
Accounts for Credit Institutions and Investment Companies Act
(1995:1559), see Chapter 7, Section 7 of the same Act.

Statements from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board (UFR) should apply
in the same way as RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Corporate
Groups.

The following clarifications are provided for the standards below:
a) IFRS 8 Operating Segments. This standard only has to be applied for the
consolidated financial statements of an institution that is covered by the
standard’s area of application.

b) IAS 33 Earnings Per Share. This standard only has to be applied for the
consolidated financial statements of an institution that is covered by the
standard’s area of application.


Capital adequacy analysis of financial holding companies
A capital adequacy analysis shall be included in the consolidated financial
statements of a financial holding company under Chapter 7, section 1 of the
Annual Accounts for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies Act
(1995:1559). In accordance with Chapter 6, Section 3 of the same Act, the
analysis shall relate to the consolidated situation under Article 18 of
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 on prudential requirements for credit
institutions and securities companies in which the holding company is
included as a parent company.

The capital adequacy analysis shall also refer to a financial conglomerate if
the holding company is required to report capital adequacy for the
conglomerate to a supervisory authority.

More detailed rules regarding the content of the capital adequacy analysis
can be found in Chapter 6, section 4. (FFFS 2015:20)

Section 3 Repealed through (FFFS 2013:24).

Section 4 A parent company shall provide information about the following for
every country in which it is established:


1. Name, nature of the operation and geographic area.

2. Net turnover.



18

3. Average number of employees.



4. Earnings before tax.



5. Tax on earnings.



6. Government subsidies. (FFFS 2014:18)

Chapter 8 Interim reports
Basic rules
Section 1 A listed institution that does not prepare consolidated financial
statements, in addition to the disclosures required in accordance with Chapter 9 of
the Annual Accounts for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies Act
(1995:1559), shall also apply IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting, where
applicable, and provide the information set out in sections 2–4.

An institution that is not covered by the first paragraph only needs to apply in its
interim report for legal entities Chapter 9 of the Annual Accounts for Credit
Institutions and Securities Companies Act and provide the information that is set
out in sections 2–4. (FFFS 2013:24)

Special rules for disclosure
Section 2 General disclosures in accordance with Chapter 6, section 5 regarding
how new or amended international financial reporting standards, which have been
published but not yet applied, will affect the capital requirement, own funds and
large exposures at the time of the transition shall be provided in the interim report.

(FFFS 2013:2)
Section 3 Information about remuneration and benefits for management shall be
disclosed if such remuneration and benefits have changed to a not insignificant
extent during the interim period.

Section 4 An institution shall provide information in its interim report about
significant changes to the own funds or the own fund requirements since the
previous financial year.

The institution shall also provide the information set out in Chapter 8, sections 3–7
of Finansinspektionen’s regulations (FFFS 2014:12) regarding prudential
requirements and capital buffers.

The interim report may also include other information that shall or may be
disclosed more often than once a year in accordance with the same regulations. If
this information is disclosed outside the interim report, the interim report shall
contain details of where this information is located.

The first–third paragraphs shall be applied to information for the institution as well
as for a consolidated situation in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EU) No
575/2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and securities
companies, if the institution in accordance with Chapter 6, section 3 is obligated to
disclose corresponding information for the consolidated situation. (FFFS 2014:18)
Section 5 An institution shall apply IAS 34 and sections 2–4 in an interim report for the group. (FFFS 2013:2)
_______________


19


Entry into force and transition provisions
2008:25.

1. These regulations and general guidelines shall enter into force on 1 January
2009, whereupon Finansinspektionen’s regulations and general guidelines (FFFS
2006:16) regarding the annual accounts of credit institutions and securities
companies shall be repealed.

2. These rules shall be applied for the first time to annual financial statements,
annual reports and consolidated financial statements prepared for financial years
starting on 1 January 2009 or later, and in interim reports prepared for some of this
financial year, unless otherwise set out in points 3 or 4.

3. These rules may be applied to annual financial statements, annual reports,
consolidated financial statements and interim reports for financial years that started
in 2008.

4. The following rules do not need to be applied on annual financial statements,
annual reports and consolidated financial statements for financial years that started
on 1 January 2009 or later.

a) Chapter 2, general guidelines, point 5 on exemptions from disclosure rules in
IAS 19 Employee Benefits for some smaller companies.

b) Chapter 7, section 1, general guidelines, second paragraph, on exemptions from
IAS 19 in accordance with RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities about defined-
benefit pension plans in the consolidated financial statements.

2009:11.

These regulations and general guidelines shall enter into force on 1 January 2010
and shall be applied to annual financial statements, annual reports and consolidated
financial statements that are prepared for the financial years that started after 31
December 2009.

2011:54.

These regulations and general guidelines shall enter into force on 31 December
2011 and are applied to annual financial statements, annual reports and
consolidated financial statements prepared for financial years that started on 1
January 2011 or later and in interim reports prepared for financial years that started
on 1 January 2012 or later.

2013:2.

These regulations shall enter into force on 1 March 2013 and apply to annual
financial statements, annual reports, consolidated financial statements and interim
reports prepared for financial years that started on 1 January 2013 or later.

2013:24.

1. These regulations and general guidelines shall enter into force on 1 January 2014
and are applied to annual financial statements, annual reports and consolidated
financial statements prepared for financial years that started on 1 January 2014 or
later and in interim reports prepared for part of such a financial year.


20

2. The rules in Chapter 5, section 4 may be applied to annual financial statements,
annual reports and consolidated financial statements that started in 2013 and in
interim reports prepared for part of such a financial year.

2014:18.

These regulations shall enter into force on 2 August 2014 and apply to annual
financial statements, annual reports, consolidated financial statements and interim
reports prepared for financial years that started on 1 January 2014 or later.

2015:20.

These regulations shall enter into force on 1 January 2016 and apply to annual
financial statements, annual reports and consolidated financial statements prepared
for the financial year commencing after 31 December 2015.

2017:18.

These regulations and general guidelines enter into force on 1 January 2018 and are
initially applied to annual financial statements, annual reports and consolidated
financial statements prepared for financial years commencing immediately after 31
December 2017 and in interim reports prepared for parts of such financial year.

The provisions set out in Chapter 1, section 1 are initially applied to annual
financial statements and annual reports that are prepared as at 31 December 2017.

2018:20
These regulations shall enter into force on 1 January 2019 and apply to annual
financial statements, annual reports and consolidated financial statements prepared
for the financial year commencing immediately after 31 December 2018 and in
interim reports prepared for part of such a financial year.

_______________


21


Appendix 1
Balance sheet items
Section 1 The items in sections 2-28 refer to the layout for the balance sheet in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Annual Accounts for Credit Institutions and
Securities Companies Act (1995:1559).

If an institution deviates from the presentation of the balance sheet in accordance
with Chapter 3, section 2, the institution may make a corresponding deviation
from sections 2–28. (FFFS 2015:20)

General guidelines
When a deviation is made and the items are divided according to their
nature and relative liquidity, it is assumed that the terms and definitions
used have the same meaning as in the Annual Accounts for Credit
Institutions and Securities Companies Act and these regulations and general
guidelines.

An institution that uses terms or definitions in their annual report that have a
different meaning to the ones set out in the Annual Accounts for Credit
Institutions and Securities Companies Act and these regulations and general
guidelines should state this and specify what these differences are.

If an item can be reported or presented in more than one way, it should be
indicated which option or, where permitted, options are applied.


Assets
Section 224 Assets: Item 1 — Cash and balances with central banks. Cash assets are reported here. Cash assets include legal tender including foreign notes
and coins.

Balances with central banks and municipal postal giros are reported here if the
following conditions are met:
1. The central bank or postal giro shall be from the country where the institution is
established.

2. The balances shall be readily available at all times.

Other claims on central banks or postal giros that do not meet the requirements in
the second paragraph shall be reported as Loans and advances to credit institutions
(Assets, item 3) or Loans to the general public (Assets, item 4).

Section 325 Assets: Item 2 — Treasury bills eligible for repayment etc. The following assets are reported here:
1. Treasury bills, government bonds, treasury bonds and other similar securities
issued by public bodies that are eligible for refinancing with the central bank of the
country where the institution is established (sub-item 2.a Treasury bills).


24 Article 13 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

25 Article 14 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

22

2. Other securities that are eligible for refinancing with central banks in the country
where the institution is established, to the extent that they are eligible for
refinancing under national law (sub-item 2.b Other bills eligible for refinancing).

Debt instruments that are issued by public bodies but do not meet the conditions set
out in the first paragraph, 1, shall be included in “Bonds and other interest-bearing
securities” (Assets, item 5).


General guidelines
The requirement for eligibility for refinancing refers to the character of the
asset and not the capacity of the individual institution to refinance.

The eligibility for refinancing for other securities than government and
municipal security holdings must be established in law (first paragraph, point
2). It is therefore not sufficient for a central bank to be willing to refinance,
for example, real estate security holdings, based on their own rules.

Public body refers to public authorities, including central banks, and
municipalities, but not publicly or municipally-owned companies.

The provisions for dividing up this item into the sub-items Treasury bills
eligible for refinancing and Other bills eligible for refinancing are set out in
Chapter 5, section 1.

Section 426 Assets: Item 3 — Loans to credit institutions. This item covers loans and advances to credit institutions and central banks. Credit institutions also
refer to corresponding foreign institutions, including international banking
organisations.

The provision in the first paragraph does not apply to
1. loans and advances that are represented by bonds or other interest-bearing
securities that shall be reported under Treasury bills eligible for refinancing etc.

(Assets, item 2) or Bonds and other interest-bearing securities (Assets, item 5),
2. balances with central banks that are readily available at all times and which shall
be reported under Cash and balances with central banks (Assets, item 1), and
3. claims on such financial holding companies as those set out in Chapter 1, section
1, second paragraph.


General guidelines
Claims at central banks and credit institutions include clearing claims for the
institution concerned.

For a genuine repurchase transaction, the transferee reports in accordance
with Chapter 3, section 8, second paragraph the consideration as a claim on
the transferor. The claim should be reported under this item if the transferor
is a credit institution or a central bank. Otherwise the claim is reported under
Loans and advances to customers (Assets, item 4). (FFFS 2017:18)
A claim in the form of cash collateral for securities borrowing should be
reported under this item if the lender is a credit institution or a central bank.

Otherwise the claim is reported under Lending to the general public (Assets,
item 4)

26 Article 15 of Directive 86/635/EEC.



23


Section 527 Assets: Item 4 — Loans to the general public. Loans to the general public cover loans and advances, including credit card claims, to customers that are
not credit institutions. This item also includes lending at the Swedish National Debt
Office.

The requirement in the first paragraph does not apply to claims in the forms of
bonds or other securities that shall be reported under
1. Bonds and other interest-bearing securities (Assets, item 5), or
2. Treasury bills eligible for refinancing etc. (Assets, item 2).

Section 628 Assets: Item 5 — Bonds and other interest-bearing securities. This item comprises negotiable bonds and other interest-bearing securities (including
zero coupon and discounting instruments) issued by credit institutions, other
undertakings or public bodies.

The requirement in the first paragraph does not apply to any bonds and other
interest-bearing securities that are eligible for refinancing with central banks or in
general meet the conditions to be reported under Treasury bills eligible for
refinancing etc. (Assets, item 2).


General guidelines
Requirements for dividing up this item into the sub-items “Issued by public
bodies” and “Issued by other borrowers” are found in Chapter 5, section 2.

The primary criterion for the demarcation between interest-bearing securities
in item 5 and loans in items 3 and 4 should be whether the institution’s claim
is negotiable or transferable. Debts that correspond to bearer securities are
normally reported under this item. Non-transferable securities are normally
reported under one of the loans and advances items.

Section 729 Assets: Item 6 — Shares and participations (that are not included in items 7, 8 or 9). Holdings of shares and participations as well as subscription rights and fractional rights are reported here.

The requirement of the first paragraph do not apply to shares and participations in
associates, joint ventures, Group companies and shareholdings in other companies.

These should be reported under the asset item 7, 8 or 9. (FFFS 2015:20)

General guidelines
Shares in a tenant association (tenant-owned property) and shares in a
Swedish UCITS are examples of shares that should be reported under this
item.

When recognising share options other than subscription rights and fractional
rights, the references to derivatives in the general guidelines for section 13
regarding Other Assets (Assets, item 13) apply. (FFFS 2015:20)


27 Article 16 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

28 Article 17 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

29 Article 4 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

24

Section 830 Assets: Item 7 – Shares and participations in associated companies and joint ventures. Holdings of shares and participations in associates and joint ventures are reported here, along with subscription rights, fractional rights and
derivatives for shares in associates and joint ventures; cf. Chapter 1, sections 5 and
5a of the Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554).

(FFFS 2015:20)

Section 931 Assets: Item 8 — Shares and participations in group companies.

Holdings of shares and participations in group companies, and subscription rights,
fractional rights and derivatives of shares in group companies are reported here, cf.

Chapter 1, section 4 of the Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554). (FFFS 2013:2)
Section 9a Assets: Item 9 – Shareholdings in other companies. Shareholdings
in other companies are reported here, along with subscription rights, fractional
rights and derivatives for shareholdings in other companies. Shareholdings in other
companies means shareholdings in accordance with Chapter 1, section 4 (a) of the
Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) that do not consist of shares in Group
companies, associates and joint ventures. (FFFS 2015:20)

Section 1032 Assets: Item 10– Intangible non-current assets. This item includes 1. capitalised expenditure for development and similar activities,
2. concessions, patents, licences, brands and similar rights and assets,
3. tenancy and similar rights,
4. goodwill, and
5. advance payments for intangible non-current assets.

(FFFS 2015:20)

General guidelines
What may be recognised as an intangible asset and what as goodwill is
specified in Chapter 4, Section 1 of the Annual Accounts for Credit
Institutions and Securities Companies Act, cf. Chapter 4, section 2 of the
Annual Accounts Act. There are supplementary requirements in approved
international financial reporting standards, cf. IAS 38 Intangible Assets and
the Swedish Financial Reporting Board Recommendation RFR 2 Accounting
for Legal Entities.

A contractual right to manage financial assets on behalf of another is an
example of such a similar right as referred to in point 2.

Section 1133 Assets: Item 11 – Tangible assets. This item includes 1. buildings and land,
2. machinery and technical facilities,
3. equipment, tools and installations,
4. assets under construction, and
5. advance payments for tangible assets.


30 Article 8 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

31 Article 8 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

32 Article 8 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

33 Article 8 of Directive 86/635/EEC.



25


Buildings and land include
1. buildings and land,
2. buildings under construction, and
3. down payment in respect of buildings and land.

The item includes such properties as the institution has taken over in order to
protect a claim and properties where it carries out its own operations.

When reporting leases in accordance with the requirements for operating leases, the
lessor shall report all leased assets constituting non-current assets under this item.

Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of leased assets shall be reported under
the item “Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of tangible assets and
intangible assets” (Profit and loss statement, item 10). Prepayments to suppliers for
leased assets shall be reported in the item Tangible assets. The prepayment
amounts shall be disclosed in a note.

(FFFS 2015:20)
Section 12 Assets: Item 12 – Subscribed capital unpaid. Receivables relating to
payments not yet made for subscribed shares are reported here.

Before a new issue decision has been registered, the corresponding amount in
liabilities shall be reported under the item Other liabilities (Liabilities, provisions
and equity, item 4). Following registration, the amount shall be transferred to Share
capital/Basic fund/Paid-up capital (Liabilities, provisions and equity, item 9).

(FFFS 2015:20)

General guidelines
This item includes receivables from new share issues. Once the new share
issue decision is registered, the equivalent amount in liabilities shall be
transferred to the item Share capital; see Chapter 13, section 29, paragraph 1
of the Companies Act (2005:551).

Subscribed capital unpaid may be reported here even if not all the conditions
for the inclusion of an asset on the balance sheet in accordance with
approved international financial reporting standards are met.


Section 13 Assets: Item 13 – Other assets. Unless it is more appropriate to
recognise an asset under a different item, the following are reported here:
1. those derivatives which have a positive value,
2. receivables not arising through bank transactions, such as announced but unpaid
leasing fees, securities settlement receivables and overdue interest receivables, and
3. other assets.

(FFFS 2015:20)

General guidelines
Share-based and interest-rate-based derivatives do not need to be reported
together with the corresponding underlying instrument, but may be included
under Other assets (Assets, item 13) or Other liabilities (Liabilities,
provisions and equity, item 4). Subscription rights (share options) and
fractional rights are reported, however, in accordance with sections 7–9.

Derivative instruments can also be reported separately as an own item.

(FFFS 2015:20)

26

Section 1434 Assets: Item 14 – Prepaid expenses and accrued income. Such expenditure that is recognised during the financial period but which refers to
expenses for periods after the balance sheet date and income that is recognised
during the financial period but which refers to income after the balance sheet date
are reported here.

(FFFS 2015:20)
General guidelines
Accrued interest on loans and accrued coupon interest on interest-bearing
securities can also be reported here.


Liabilities, provisions and equity
Section 1535 Liabilities, provisions and equity: Item 1 — Liabilities to credit institutions. This item covers liabilities to credit institutions and central banks.

Credit institutions also refer to corresponding foreign institutions, including
international banking organisations.

The requirement in the first paragraph does not apply to
1. bonds and other securities that are reported under Issued securities, etc.

(Liabilities, provisions and equity, item 3),
2. liabilities reported under Subordinated liabilities (Liabilities, provisions and
equity, item 7), and
3. liabilities to the financial holding companies set out in Chapter 1, section 1,
second paragraph.


General guidelines
Liabilities to central banks and credit institutions include clearing debts to
relevant institutions.

For a genuine repurchase transaction, the transferor reports in accordance
with Chapter 3, section 8, second paragraph the received consideration as a
liability to the transferee. If the transferee is a credit institution or a central
bank, the liability should be reported under this item. Otherwise the liability
is reported under Deposits and borrowings from the public (Liabilities,
provisions and equity, item 2).

A liability resulting from a lender receiving cash collateral for lending
securities should be reported under this item if the borrower is a credit
institution or a central bank. Otherwise the liability is reported under
Deposits and borrowings from the public (Liabilities, provisions and equity,
item 2). (FFFS 2013:2)

Section 1636 Liabilities, provisions and equity: Item 2 — Deposits and borrowings from the public. All deposits and borrowings from the public, i.e. not from credit institutions and central banks, are reported here. Deposits and
borrowings from the Swedish National Debt Office are also reported here.



34 Article 1(1) in Directive 86/635/EEC, cf. Article 18 in Council Directive 78/660/EEC of 28 July 1978 on the annual accounts of certain types of companies (EGT L 222, 14.8.1978, pp. 11–31, Celex 31978L0660).

35 Article 18 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

36 Article 19 of Directive 86/635/EEC.



27


The requirement in the first paragraph does not apply to
1. borrowings in the form of bonds and other securities that are reported under
Issued securities etc. (Liabilities, provisions and equity, item 3), and
2. liabilities that shall be reported under Subordinated liabilities (Liabilities,
provisions and equity, item 7).

Savings placed in a bank and the funds managed under an own name but on behalf
of a third party are reported under sub-item 2.a Deposits. (FFFS 2013:2)
Section 1737 Liabilities, provisions and equity: Item 3 — Issued securities, etc.

Bonds and other debt for which negotiable securities have been issued, for example
certificate of deposit and debt arising out of own acceptances or promissory notes,
are reported here. (FFFS 2017:18)
Only bills or notes which a credit institution has issued for its own refinancing and
in respect of which it is the first party liable (drawee) shall be treated as own
acceptances. (FFFS 2017:18)
This requirement does not apply to debt reported under Subordinated liabilities
(Liabilities, provisions and equity, item 7).

Debt through own acceptances or bills/notes and similar securities are reported
under sub-item 3.b Other. (FFFS 2017:18)
Repurchased own-debt securities shall be deducted from the outstanding liability.


General guidelines
The primary criterion for the demarcation between issued securities in item 3
and liabilities in items 1 and 2 should be whether the claim on the institution
is negotiable or transferable from the point of view of the creditor. Liabilities
that correspond to bearer securities are normally reported under this item.

Non-transferable securities are normally reported under Liabilities to credit
institutions (item 1) or Deposits and borrowings from the public (item 2).


Section 18 Liabilities, provisions and equity: Item 4 – Other liabilities. Unless it is more appropriate to present a liability under a different item, the following are
presented here:
1. derivatives that have a negative value,
2. liabilities not arising through bank transactions, such as own tax liabilities, trade payables and securities settlement payables, and
3. other liabilities.

(FFFS 2015:20)
General guidelines
Share-based and interest-rate-based derivatives do not need to be reported
together with the corresponding underlying instrument, but may be included
under Other assets (Assets, item 13) or Other liabilities (Liabilities,
provisions and equity, item 4). Derivative instruments can also be reported
separately as an own item.

(FFFS 2015:20)

37 Article 20 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

28

Section 1938 Liabilities, provisions and equity: Item 5 — Accrued expenses and deferred income. Income that is recognised during the financial period but
refers to income for periods after the balance sheet date, and expenses that refer to
the financial period, but which only refer to expenditure after the balance sheet date
are reported here.

General guidelines
This item can also include accrued interest on deposits and borrowings and
accrued coupon interest on financial liabilities.

Section 20 Liabilities, provisions and equity: Item 6 — Provisions. Provisions
are reported here, cf. Chapter 3, section 2 of the Annual Accounts for Credit
Institutions and Securities Companies Act (1995:1559) and Chapter 3, section 9 of
the Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554).

Sub-item 6a Provisions for pensions and similar obligations covers provisions in
accordance with the Safeguarding of Pension Commitments Act (1967:531) and
other provisions for compensation to employees after terminated employment.

Chapter 3, section 3 contains requirements as to when provisions for pension
commitments for employees shall be recognised in the balance sheet.


General guidelines
Provisions for loan commitments and financial guarantees that are not
derivatives can be included in sub-item 6c Other provisions. (FFFS 2017:18)

Section 2139 Liabilities, provisions and equity: Item 7 — Subordinated liabilities. This item covers liabilities where it has been contractually agreed that they will be repaid, in the event of winding up or of bankruptcy, and whether or not
evidenced by securities, only after the claims of all creditors have been made.

Section 22 Liabilities, provisions and equity: Item 8 — Untaxed reserves.

Accumulated excess depreciation, replacement reserves, tax allocation reserves,
transitional reserves and other untaxed reserves are reported here.

In a consolidated balance sheet, untaxed reserves are divided into deferred tax
liabilities, which are shown in sub-item 6.b Provisions for taxation as well as in a
restricted capital item, which is reported under sub-item 12.e Other reserves.

Section 2340 Liabilities, provisions and equity: Item 9 — Share capital/Basic fund/Paid-up capital. Capital that, depending on the legal structure of the
institution concerned, is regarded as equity or subscribed by shareholders or other
proprietors, is recognised here.


General guidelines
This item stands for “Share capital” for banking companies and limited
liability companies; “Primary capital” for savings banks and “Contribution
capital” in members’ banks.



38Article 11 in Directive 86/635/EEC, cf. Article 21 of Directive 78/660/EEC.

39 Article 21 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

40 Article 22 of Directive 86/635/EEC.



29


Section 24 Liabilities, provisions and equity: Item 10 — Share premium
reserve. The share premium for share issues is reported here.

Section 25 Liabilities, provisions and equity: Item 11 — Revaluation reserve.

Revaluation reserves in accordance with the requirements set out in Chapter 4,
sections 1 and 2 of the Annual Accounts for Credit Institutions and Securities
Companies Act are reported here.

Section 26 Liabilities, provisions and equity: Item 12 – Other funds.

When reporting sub-item 12.b Equity method reserve, an institution shall make
provisions for and deductions from the equity method reserve by moving amounts
within equity to adjust retained earnings.

Provisions to an equity method reserve shall be recognised after tax.

In sub-item 12.c Fair value reserve, changes in value are reported in accordance with Chapter 4, section 1 of the Annual Accounts for Credit Institutions and
Securities Companies Act; cf. Chapter 4, section 14 (d) of the Annual Accounts
Act.

Sub-item 12.d Guarantee fund refers to such a fund as indicated in Chapter 5,
section 1 of the Savings Bank Act (1987:619).

Sub-item 12.e Development expenditure fund refers to such a fund as indicated in
Chapter 4, section 2, Paragraph 2 of the Annual Accounts Act.

(FFFS 2015:20)

Section 27 Liabilities, provisions and equity: Item 13 — Profit or loss brought
forward. Profit or loss brought forward is presented here.

Section 28 Liabilities, provisions and equity: Item 14 — Profit or loss for the
financial year. Net profit or net loss for the financial year is reported here.

Memorandum items
Section 29 Repealed through (FFFS 2015:20).

Section 30 Repealed through (FFFS 2015:20).

Section 31 Repealed through (FFFS 2015:20).

Section 3241 Repealed through (FFFS 2015:20).

Section 33 Repealed through (FFFS 2015:20).



41Article 12.5 and 25 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

30

Appendix 2
Items in the Profit and loss statement
Section 1 The items in sections 2-20 relate to the layout for profit and loss
statements in accordance with Appendix 3.

Deviations to the content of the items in sections 2–20 can be made if
1. the deviation is necessary as a direct result of any deviations from the balance
sheet layout that are allowed in accordance with the provisions set out in Chapter 3,
section 2 on deviations from the balance sheet’s layout,
2. at least the same level of information is submitted as if the content of the items
had been applied, and
3. disclosures about this and the reasons for deviations are disclosed in a note.


General guidelines
The regulation does not allow for deviations in the layout itself, only for
deviations to the content of the items.

An institution that uses terms or definitions in their annual report that have a
different meaning to the ones set out in the Annual Accounts for Credit
Institutions and Securities Companies Act (1995:1559) and these regulations
and general guidelines should state this and specify what these differences
are.

If an individual item can be reported or presented in more than one way, the
institution should state the alternative, or where so permitted, the alternatives
that are being applied.


Profit and loss statement
Section 242 Item 1 — Interest income. Income from assets that are recorded under Assets, items 1-5 in the balance sheet (Cash and balances with central banks,
Treasury bills eligible for repayment etc., Loans and advances to credit institutions,
Loans to the public and Bonds and other interest-bearing securities) are reported
here.

Income in the form of any commission similar in nature to interest that is
calculated on a time basis or by the amount of the claim is reported here.


General guidelines
Interest income and expenses on any interest rate swaps that protect interest-
bearing assets in hedge accounting should be included here.

Payments that are taken into consideration when calculating the effective
interest rate should be reported here.

Payments that are not taken into consideration in accordance with the
effective interest rate method should not be reported in this item, cf. IFRS 15

42 Article 29 of Directive 86/635/EEC.



31


Revenue from Contracts with Customers and related guidelines. These
payments should be reported in accordance with section 6.

Income from any loan commitments where it is probable that a loan will be
entered into shall be reported under this item, cf. IFRS 15 and related
guidelines. (2017:18)

Section 3 Item 2 — Lease income. Gross lease income is reported here, i.e.

before depreciation according to plan.


Section 443 Item 3 — Interest expenses. Expenses for liabilities that are included under Liabilities, provisions and equity, items 1, 2, 3 or 7 (Liabilities to credit
institutions, Deposits and borrowings from the public, Issued securities etc. and
Subordinated liabilities), shall be reported under this item.

Fees for the deposit guarantee are reported under this item.

Expenditure in the form of commission similar in nature to interest that are
calculated on a time basis or by reference to the amount of the liability are reported
here. Payment charged in connection with a withdrawal from a deposit account is a
correction of the agreed interest, which will reduce the institution’s interest
expenses.


General guidelines
Interest income and expenses on any interest rate swaps that protect interest-
bearing liabilities in hedge accounting should be reported here.

Section 544 Item 4 – Dividends received. All dividends from shares and participations are reported here, including dividends from associates, joint
ventures, Group companies and shareholdings in other companies. Group
contributions received from subsidiaries are also reported here if the institution has
not chosen as a policy to report these as appropriations or has chosen to report
Group contributions received from subsidiaries on a separate line item in the profit
and loss statement immediately following the item Dividends received. Dividends
must not be reported here for holdings of shares and participations reported using
the equity method. (FFFS 2015:20)
Section 645 Item 5 — Commission revenue. Income for services supplied are recognised here to the extent they are not considered to be interest, see section 2.


Securities companies may report commission revenue and commission expenses at
the top of the layout of the profit and loss statement.


General guidelines
Examples of commissions are:
– payments for debit cards and credit cards that are not considered to be
interest (see section 2),
– payments related to guarantees, loans administration on behalf of other
lenders and securities transactions on behalf of third parties,

43 Article 29 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

44 Article 30 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

45Article 2.4 and 31 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

32

– payments and other charges and income related to payment transactions,
clearing transactions, account administration charges and commissions for
the safe custody and administration of securities,
– payments that can be related to foreign currency transactions, and to the
sale and purchase of coins and precious metals on behalf of third parties, and
– payments for brokerage services in connection with savings and insurance
contracts and loans.


Any profits and losses that refer to guarantees that are derivatives should not
be reported here. These can be reported under Net profit on financial
operations (item 7) in accordance with section 8. The provision of financial
guarantees in other cases involves risk-taking rather than carrying out a
service. When income from financial guarantees that are not derivatives is
reported under this item, it may therefore need to be reported separately in a
sub-item, cf. Chapter 3, section 2 of the Annual Accounts for Credit
Institutions and Securities Companies Act, Chapter 3, section 4 of the
Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial
Statements.

Section 7 46 Item 6 — Commission expenses. Expenses for services received are reported here, to the extent that they cannot be considered to be interest, see
section 4.


General guidelines
Examples of commissions and the presentation of commission expenses in a
securities company’s profit and loss statement can be found in section 6.

Any transaction costs that are to be taken into consideration when
calculating the effective interest rate should not be reported here, cf. IFRS 9
Financial Instruments. (2017:18)

Section 847 Item 7 — Net profit or net loss on financial transactions. This item covers
1. the net profit or net loss of trading with financial instruments and trading with
precious metals,
2. value changes of the financial instruments that are measured at fair value
through profit or loss and precious metals, and
3. net profit or net loss on currency exchange activities and other recognised
changes in the value of assets and liabilities in foreign currency to the extent they
can be attributed to exchange rate changes that will be reported in the profit and
loss statement. (2017:18)
Net profits, net losses or value changes that are to be recognised as interest in accordance with sections 2 and 4 shall not be included here.


General guidelines
In the profit/loss item, impairment losses and reversals of these losses should
be reported when they apply to bonds and other interest-bearing securities
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. The profit/loss
item should also include reclassification adjustments arising when financial

46 Article 31 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

47 Article 32 of Directive 86/635/EEC.



33


assets are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are
removed from the statement of financial position.

Net profit and net loss and value changes of financial guarantees that are
derivatives can be reported here.

Net profit, net loss and other reported value changes relating to trading with
emissions rights and electricity certificates can be reported under this item.

An institution which deviates in its profit and loss statement from the
provisions on merging items or from requirements on offsetting in
accordance with IAS 1 should detail this in a note. (2017:18)

Section 9 Item 8 — Other operating income. Any operating income that cannot
suitably be included under any other item is reported here, for example statute-
barred funds, income from real estate and capital gains when selling tangible and
intangible assets that are held to maturity.

General guidelines
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability (or part
of a financial liability) that has been extinguished or transferred to another
party and the consideration paid (interest differential compensation),
including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed can be
reported here, cf. IFRS Financial instruments. This also applies to
differences from the early repayment of financial assets, valued at the
amortised cost (interest differential compensation). (2017:18)
Section 1048 Item 9 — General administrative expenses. This item covers 1. staff costs, including salaries and fees, bonuses and commissions, pension
expenses and other social security expenses, and
2. other administrative expenses.

Even institutions applying the exception from IAS 19 in RFR 2 Accounting for
Legal Entities and reporting defined-benefit pension schemes in accordance with
the principles stated therein may report the portion of the pension expense for the
year that consists of interest in this item. (FFFS 2013:2)

General guidelines
Other administrative expenses include, for example, expenses for rent,
auditing, training, IT, telecommunications, travel and entertainment, as well
as cash differences.


Section 1149 Item 10 — Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets. Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of any non-current assets that are included under the items Intangible assets (Assets, item 10)
or Tangible assets (Assets, item 11) are reported here. (FFFS 2015:20)

Section 12 Item 11 — Other operating expenses. Any operating expenses that
cannot suitably be included under another item are reported here.



48 Article 27 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

49 Article 27 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

34

Operating costs for real estate are also reported here.


General guidelines
Expenses that can be reported here include, for example, marketing expenses
and insurance expenses.

The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability (or part
of a financial liability) that has been extinguished or transferred to another
party and the consideration paid (interest differential compensation),
including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed can be
reported here, cf. IFRS Financial instruments. This also applies to
differences from the early repayment of financial assets, valued at the
amortised cost (interest differential compensation). (2017:18)

Section 1350 Item 12 — Credit losses, net. This item covers 1. impairment loss on loans and advances that are included under the items Loans
to credit institutions (Assets, item 3) or Loans to the public (Assets, item 4) and
impairment losses on interest that have been capitalised in previous annual
financial statements,
2. provisions attributable to loan commitments and financial guarantee agreements
and other provisions for such contingent liabilities and commitments as would
otherwise have been included in the note on contingent liabilities,
3. expenses for impairment losses on leasing receivables and contractual assets,
4. income from the recovery of impaired loans, and
5. reversals of previous impairments or provisions.

(2017:18)

General guidelines
The net cost of meeting guarantees provided should be assessed with
reference to the value of any rights of recourse.

Section 1451 Item 13 – Impairment of financial non-current assets. This includes impairment losses on financial assets that are included under
– Bonds and other interest-bearing securities (Assets, item 5),
– Shares and participations in associates and joint ventures (Assets, item 7), or
– Shares and participations in Group undertakings (Assets, item 8).

(2017:18)

Section 1552 Item 14 — Reversals of impairment losses on financial non-current assets. Amounts that have been reversed following previous impairment
losses on financial assets are reported here, if the impairment loss has been
expensed in accordance with section 14. (2017:18)
Section 16 Item 14A – Share of profits from shareholdings. The share of the
profits from holdings of shares and participations recognised using the equity
method are reported here. Dividends are reported in item 4 – Dividends received,
unless the equity method is applied. (FFFS 2015:20)
Section 17 Item 15 — Appropriations. Provisions to and dissolutions of untaxed
reserves and paid and received Group contributions if the institution has selected as

50 Article 33 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

51 Article 34 of Directive 86/635/EEC.

52 Article 34 of Directive 86/635/EEC.



35


its principle to report these as appropriations (cf. section 5, item 4 – Dividends
received) are reported here.

Provisions and dissolutions of untaxed reserves shall not be reported in a
consolidated income statement. The deferred tax expense shall be reported under
the appropriate tax item (item 16 Tax on profit/loss for the year or item 17 Other
taxes). (FFFS 2013:2)
Section 18 Item 16 — Tax on profit/loss for the year. Tax on profit or loss for the year, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, is reported
here.

Section 19 Item 17 — Other taxes. Other taxes than tax on profit for the year, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, are reported here.


Section 20 Item 18 — Profit/loss for the year. The net profit or loss for the
financial year is reported here.

36

Appendix 3
Presentation of the income statement
General guidelines
The income statement should contain the entries listed below.

1.

Interest income
2.

Lease income
3.

Interest expenses

NET INTEREST INCOME
4.

Dividend income
5.

Commission income
6.

Commission expense
7.

Net result of financial transactions
8.

Other operating income
TOTAL OPERATING INCOME
9.

General administrative expenses
10.

Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of property, plant
and equipment and intangible non-current assets
11.

Other operating expenses

TOTAL EXPENSES BEFORE CREDIT LOSSES

PROFIT/LOSS BEFORE CREDIT LOSSES
12.

Credit losses, net
13.

Impairment of financial assets
(FFFS 2017:18)
14.

Reversals of impairment of financial assets (FFFS 2017:18)
14A.

Share of participating interests

OPERATING PROFIT/LOSS
15.

Appropriations
16.

Tax on profit or loss for the year
17.

Other taxes
PROFIT OR LOSS FOR THE YEAR

Securities companies may report Commission income and Commission
expense before interest income, in accordance with section 6 of Appendix 2.

Information on net interest income is provided in accordance with Chapter 5,
section 11. Only companies that do not report leasing in accordance with the
rules for operating leases can report net interest income in their profit and
loss statement in the sub-summary row NET INTEREST INCOME.

In accordance with section 16 of Appendix 2, shares of profit or loss from
shareholdings reported using the equity method are reported in item 14A
Share in profit or loss from shareholdings.

(FFFS 2015:20)


37


Document Outline

Chapter 1 Scope and definitions Definitions
Exemption


Chapter 2 General provisions regarding the annual accounts Generally accepted accounting principles General guidelines


Chapter 3 Balance sheet and profit and loss statement Content in the balance sheet and profit and loss statement General guidelines


Deviations from the balance sheet layout General guidelines


Pension commitments for employees
Pledged property
Syndicated loans
Managed assets General guidelines


Taken-over property
Repos and other repurchase transactions General guidelines


Spot purchases and spot sales
Held-for-trading
Equity


Chapter 4 Valuation rules Valuation of taken-over property General guidelines


Net realisable value and fair value for taken-over real estate General guidelines


Application of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
Leasing
Social security contributions
Tax on returns


Chapter 5 Disclosures Balance Sheet
Treasury bills eligible for refinancing, etc.

Bonds and other interest-bearing securities
Disclosures about securities
Maturity information
Holdings in credit institutions
Leasing transactions


The note shall indicate the carrying amount of repossessed leased assets. (FFFS 2015:20) Buildings and land in own operations General guidelines


Pledged assets
Contingent liabilities
Managed assets
Subordinated assets
Profit and loss statement
Interest rates
Leasing
Dividends received
Remuneration and benefits for management General guidelines


Impairment of financial non-current assets
Geographic distribution of income General guidelines


Costs of subordinated liabilities
Management and agency services
Foreign currency
Compliance General guidelines


Non-reversed impairments
Equity
Small unlisted securities companies
Branches of foreign undertakings
Chapter 6 Management report and capital adequacy analysis Management report
Five-year overview
Capital adequacy analysis Section 4 The capital adequacy analysis shall provide, for the institution and where applicable for the consolidated situation in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and securit...



Chapter 7 Consolidated financial statements Subsidiaries that are not consolidated
Consolidated financial statements General guidelines


An institution should apply Recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Corporate Groups of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board in the consolidated financial statements. This recommendation should be applied with the exceptions and addit... Capital adequacy analysis of financial holding companies
Chapter 8 Interim reports Basic rules
Special rules for disclosure


Entry into force and transition provisions
Appendix 1 Balance sheet items General guidelines


Assets General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines


Liabilities, provisions and equity General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines


Memorandum items


Appendix 2
Items in the Profit and loss statement General guidelines
Profit and loss statement General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines
General guidelines


Presentation of the income statement General guidelines
