Finansinspektionen’s Regulations
Publisher: Finansinspektionen, Sweden, www.fi.se
ISSN 1102-7460
This translation is furnished for information purposes only and is not itself a legal document.

FFFS 2007:17
Finansinspektionen’s Regulations
governing operations on trading venues;

Published on
19 July 2007

decided on 6 July 2007.
Finansinspektionen prescribes the following pursuant to Chapter 6, section 1,
subsections 14, 33–34, 45–60 and 62 of the Securities Market Ordinance
(2007:572) and section 5, subsections 2, 4, 6–13 and section 6, subsection 13 of the
Trading with Financial Instruments Ordinance (2007:375).

Chapter 1. Scope
Section 1 These regulations apply to securities exchanges, clearing organisations,
investment firms, firms whose transferable securities are admitted to trading on a
regulated market or MTF and issuers of such transferable securities.
Section 2 These regulations contain provisions regarding:
– ownership and management assessment
– official listing
– disciplinary boards
– market surveillance
– market surveillance at an investment firm
– post-trade information
– exception and exemptions from the obligation to disclose post-trade information
– systematic internalisers
– information requirements for issuers of transferable securities
– issuers without a registered office in a state within the EEA
– notification and disclosure of information related to shareholdings
– acquisition and disposal of own shares by limited liability companies
– the Swedish Securities Council decisions on certain issues pertaining to public
takeovers in the stock exchange and publication of such decisions.

Chapter 2. Ownership and management assessment
Scope
Section 1 This chapter contains provisions governing the information a securities
exchange, a clearing organisation and their owners shall file with
Finansinspektionen in conjunction with an ownership or management assessment
pursuant to the Securities Market Act (2007:528).

1

FFFS 2007:17

Written information to Finansinspektionen
Section 2 A securities exchange, a clearing organisation and their owners shall file
in writing the information set forth in Appendices 1–3.
Ownership assessment
Application for authorisation to acquire shares
Section 3 The information set forth in Appendix 1a or 1b shall be appended to an
application for authorisation to acquire a qualifying holding of shares or interests in
a securities exchange or a clearing organisation.
If the acquirer is a legal person, Appendix 1b shall be used for information about
the legal person and Appendix 1c for board members, alternate board members,
managing directors and persons serving in the managing director’s stead in the
acquiring legal person.
The information set forth in Appendix 1c shall be appended to an application for a
change in management in a firm that has a qualifying holding in a securities
exchange or a clearing organisation.
Application for authorisation to conduct operations
Section 4 With respect to a natural person who has a qualifying holding of shares
or interests in a securities exchange or a clearing organisation, the information set
forth in Appendix 1a shall be appended to an application for authorisation to
conduct operations. Where the owner is a legal person, Appendix 1b shall be
appended.
With respect to a board member, alternate board member, managing director or
person serving in the managing director’s stead who has a qualifying holding, the
information set forth in Appendix 1c shall be appended to an application for
authorisation to conduct operations.
Section 5 A legal person under the supervision of a financial supervisory authority
in another EEA country does not need to submit the information in Appendices 1–3
to its application for an ownership assessment. However, a description or outline of
the ownership structure in the group pre- and post-acquisition, with ownership
shares stated in per cent, shall always be appended.
Management assessment
Section 6 A securities exchange, clearing organisation and controlling company
shall notify Finansinspektionen when they appoint or intend to appoint the
following persons in the firm:
– board members
– alternate board members
– a managing director or a person serving in the managing director’s stead.

2

FFFS 2007:17
The investment firm shall also notify Finansinspektionen when the number of
board members is decreased.
The information set forth in Appendices 2a and 2b shall be appended to the
notification when a new board member, alternate board member, managing director
or person serving in the managing director’s stead is appointed in a securities
exchange or a clearing organisation.
Other provisions
Section 7 A firm that has been the subject of an ownership or management
assessment at some point during the past 365 days may, instead of that set out in
sections 3–4 and 6, submit the information set forth in Appendix 3.

Chapter 3. Official listing
Section 1 In this chapter, transferable securities refers to transferable securities as
defined in Chapter 1, section 4, subsections 2a and 2b of the Securities Market Act
(2007:528).
Section 2 Official listing of transferable securities on a securities exchange, unless
otherwise specified in section 3, may only occur if it can be presumed that the
transferable securities in question will be traded effectively with regard to the
issuer’s economic situation, organisation and ability to fulfil its disclosure
obligation to the securities exchange and the market and if the official listing
application refers to:
a) transferable securities that are freely transferable,
b) transferable securities, whose issuer or the person acting in the issuer’s stead has
not stopped making payments, declared bankruptcy or entered into liquidation,
c) transferable securities, whose issuer can produce annual reports and auditor’s
reports or corresponding historical information for the past three financial years
(prospectuses issued during the period in question and interim and half-yearly
reports from the period following the last annual report).
In addition to that set out in the first paragraph, official listing of shares may only
occur if the official listing application refers to:
a) shares in a firm, the expected market value of which may not be less than EUR 1
million, or, if this value cannot be estimated, the firm’s equity and untaxed reserves
net the firm’s applicable income tax rate for the most recent financial year,
b) subscribed and allocated shares where full and acceptable payment was
received,
c) shares of the same class already issued,
d) shares distributed to the public exceeding 25 per cent of the subscribed share
capital for all shares of the same class.
For convertible debt instruments, debt instruments with warrants, warrants
unassociated with debt instruments (subscription warrants), issue certificates,
interim certificates, participating loans, equity loans or convertible participation
certificates, in addition to that set out in the first paragraph, official listing may
only occur if the transferable securities in question are issued by firms whose
shares are or at the same time will be admitted to trading on a securities exchange.

3

FFFS 2007:17
For debt instruments other than those set out in the third paragraph, and in addition
to that set out in the first paragraph, official listing may only occur if the official
listing application refers to:
a) loans, the total nominal amount of which is not less than EUR 200,000,
b) debt instruments, of which the issuer has fulfilled its obligations with regard to
the debt instruments,
c) all debt instruments ranking pari passu
If the amounts referred to in the second or fourth paragraphs are denominated in a
different currency, the currency should be translated to EUR using the exchange
rate at the time of official listing.
Section 3 If the distribution or value requirements set out in section 2, second
paragraph do not exist, official listing may occur provided that the securities
exchange determines that the market conditions are still satisfactory.
Official listing may also occur if the documents referred to in section 2, first
paragraph, subsection c can be produced for fewer than three financial years if the
investors are judged to have access to the requisite information to be able to make
an informed assessment of the issuer and the transferable securities that are the
subject of the official listing application.
Section 2, second paragraph, subsections a and d do not apply to the official listing
of additional blocks of shares of the same class as those already registered.
Where applicable, official listing of transferable securities in a foreign firm shall be
subject to that which is prescribed for transferable securities in a Swedish firm.
Shares in a foreign CIU may be registered on a securities exchange if the foreign
CIU conducts fund activities in its home Member State and is under the
supervision of an authority or other authorised body.
Section 4 Shares in VPC-registered firms may be registered even if the shares are
uncertificated. This also applies to uncertificated shares in a UCITS and other
transferable securities for which no certificate has been issued, if the shares and
other transferable securities are registered in a manner equivalent to that which
applies to shares in VPC-registered firms.
This also applies where applicable to foreign transferable securities.
Section 5 An issuer that chooses Sweden as its home Member State pursuant to
Chapter 1, section 9 of the Securities Market Act shall immediately disclose this
and file information with Finansinspektionen in accordance with that laid down in
Chapter 17 of the same Act.

Chapter 4. Disciplinary board
Section 1 The board of directors of a securities exchange appoints the members of
a disciplinary board. Finansinspektionen shall be given the opportunity to comment
on the proposed members prior to their appointment.
Section 2 The chairman convenes the board and determines the time and place for
the meeting.

4

FFFS 2007:17
Section 3 The disciplinary board shall initiate disciplinary proceedings after the
securities exchange, or an issuer or a securities exchange member with regard to
their own contractual relationship, files an application. However, proceedings
related to a firm with a qualifying holding in the securities exchange shall be
initiated first after a review by the chairman of the disciplinary board, if it is
probable that the board will impose a sanction.
The board can also initiate disciplinary proceedings after an issuer or a securities
exchange member files an application in situations other than those set out in the
first paragraph. Finansinspektionen’s right to require that the board initiate
proceedings is laid down in Chapter 13, section 14, second paragraph of the
Securities Market Act (2007:528).
Registrant refers to an issuer or securities exchange member who in their
application refers to breaches of the rules of the securities exchange not related to
their own contractual relationship with the securities exchange.
Section 4 A request for an initiation of a disciplinary proceeding shall be filed in
writing and contain an account of the circumstances forming the basis of the
application. Cited, written documentation shall also be submitted to the disciplinary
board.
If the securities exchange finds that there is reasonable cause to believe that a
disciplinary proceeding will be initiated against a firm that has a qualifying holding
in the securities exchange, the securities exchange shall turn over documentation
related to the matter to the chairman of the disciplinary board for review pursuant
to section 3, first paragraph.
The disciplinary board may require that documentation related to the matter be
written in or translated into Swedish.
Section 5 If the application for a disciplinary proceeding does not fulfil the
regulations in section 4 or is in any other way incomplete, the board shall allow the
party the opportunity to supplement its application.
The board may dismiss an application:
1. if supplementary information is not received within the determined timeframe,
or
2. if the application is so deficient that it cannot be used as a basis for continued
processing of the matter.
Section 6 If an application initiates proceedings according to section 3, second
paragraph, the application and all related documentation shall immediately be
turned over to the party that is the object of the application and to its counterparty.
The matter shall then be processed between the parties set out in section 3, first
paragraph.
Section 7 The disciplinary board, before issuing a disciplinary action, shall obtain
a statement from Finansinspektionen if the matter refers to a participant under the
authority’s supervision. In general, the disciplinary board may also obtain
additional information as needed.
Section 8 Disciplinary proceedings shall be carried out in writing. However, a
party shall be given the opportunity to orally present its viewpoint to the board. A
counterparty shall be given the opportunity to be present at that time.

5

FFFS 2007:17
After the decision by the board, the documentation in the matter may be turned
over to the registrant and the registrant may be present at a meeting of the board.
Section 9 If information has been provided by a third party in a matter, that matter
may not be closed until the party concerned has been informed and given the
opportunity to respond to the information.
Section 10 When processing the matter, the disciplinary board shall consist of at
least five members. The chairman shall have legal experience and shall have served
as a judge. At least two members shall be knowledgeable in the conditions of the
securities exchange. The chairman may independently make decisions that do not
require a final decision in the matter.
Section 11 The opinion of the majority of members serves as the decision of the
board. In the event the number of votes is evenly split, the chairman has the
deciding vote. If differing opinions arise during deliberations, a vote shall be held.
In this context, section 18 of the 1986 Administrative Procedure Act (1986:223)
shall be applied where applicable.
Section 12 The decision of the disciplinary board shall be based on the content of
the documentation and any other information presented during the proceedings.
The decision shall be issued in writing and the basis on which it is grounded shall
be given.
Section 13 The decision shall be sent to the involved parties and registrants on the
same day as the board’s decision is announced. If there are differing opinions,
these shall be included in the decision.
Section 14 Minutes shall be drawn up at the meetings of the disciplinary board
and shall record the disciplinary board’s members, parties and registrants, the
nature of the matter and differing opinions. However, minutes do not need to be
drawn up if the necessary information is explicitly specified in a decision.

Chapter 5. Market surveillance at a securities exchange
Scope
Section 1 This chapter contains the provisions regarding how a securities
exchange shall monitor:
1. trading and price trends pursuant to Chapter 13, section 7 of the Securities
Market Act (2007:528),
2. that trading participants follow the requirements set out in Chapter 14, section 7
of the Securities Market Act,
3. that the financial instruments admitted to trading continuously meet the
requirements in Chapter 15, section 2 of the Securities Market Act,
4. that issuers fulfil their information requirements pursuant to Chapter 15, section
2 of the Securities Market Act, and
5. financial information prescribed in Chapter 16, section 13 of the Securities
Market Act.

6

FFFS 2007:17
Resources and expertise
Section 2 A securities exchange shall, in addition to the functions and resource
requirements set out in Chapter 13, section 2 of the Securities Market Act
(2007:528), have the expertise required to be able to maintain effective surveillance
according to section 1.
Market surveillance at a securities exchange shall have the capacity to:
1. obtain information from issuers and participants for the purpose of explaining
such cases as those referred to in section 1, subsections 1–5 and which is related to
the regulated markets operated by the securities exchange, and
2. obtain information from Swedish and foreign securities exchanges for the
purpose of explaining such cases as those referred to in section 1, subsections 1–5.
Section 3 The securities exchange shall have written procedures for carrying out
surveillance and, with regard to the obligations pursuant to section 1, subsection 5,
for taking action in the event of breaches, in accordance with the purposes referred
to in section 12.
Monitoring trade and price formation
Section 4 When monitoring trade and price determination pursuant to section 1,
subsection 1, a securities exchange shall have at its disposal technological systems
that continuously and in real time register fluctuations in prices and turnover and
signal deviant trading patterns.
For each market or financial instrument, the securities exchange shall define and
program into the technological system suitable threshold values for what is
considered to be a deviant trading pattern.
Section 5 As a part of its market surveillance, a securities exchange shall be able
to assess price development based on information from the mass media and
informational systems.
Monitoring participants
Section 6 When monitoring participants pursuant to section 1, subsection 2, a
securities exchange shall be able to monitor that the participants continuously fulfil
the requirements that apply for participation in trading on the regulated market.
Monitoring the issuer’s information obligations
Section 7 As a part of its market surveillance, a securities exchange shall verify
according to section 1, subsection 4 that issuers fulfil their obligations to file and
disclose information pursuant to the Securities Market Act (2007:528) and in
accordance with agreements between the securities exchange and the issuer.
Monitoring financial instruments
Section 8 As a part of its market surveillance, a securities exchange shall verify
pursuant to section 1, subsection 3 that the financial instruments admitted to

7

FFFS 2007:17
trading meet the requirements for admission to trading as laid down in the
Securities Market Act and in the securities exchange’s rules.
Monitoring documentation and reporting
Section 9 A securities exchange shall document adopted monitoring procedures
pursuant to section 1, subsections 1–4. The documentation shall be stored in an
orderly, secure and transparent manner for at least ten years.
The securities exchange shall annually publish a surveillance report pursuant to
section 1, subsections 1–4.
Section 10 A securities exchange shall report to Finansinspektionen adopted
monitoring procedures related to firms holding a qualifying ownership in the
securities exchange.
Section 11 As a part of its monitoring of trading and price determination, a
securities exchange shall promptly inform Finansinspektionen if transactions in
financial instruments are suspected to violate the regulations or generally accepted
practices that apply on the securities exchange.
Special rules for reporting obligations are laid down in the Financial Instruments
Trading (Market Abuse Penalties) Act (2005:377) for cases where it can be
assumed that a transaction is or relates to insider trading or market manipulation.
Monitoring recurring financial information
Section 12 The purpose of monitoring recurring financial information according to
section 1, subsection 5, is to protect investors and promote public confidence in the
securities market by contributing to the transparency of financial information
relevant for investors’ decisions. Monitoring shall take place in accordance with
sections 14–18.
Enforcement
Section 13 The enforcement shall, as a minimum, be based on a selection of
issuers and types of documents. The sampling method in this case shall be a
combination of a rotation or random approach and a risk-based approach. The riskbased approach shall take into consideration both the probability of misstatements
and potential effects on the confidence in the securities market. The sample may
also take into consideration indications of misstatements that have come to the
attention of the securities exchange.
Section 14 The size of the sample shall be large enough so that the enforcement
contributes to the confidence in the securities market. Every issuer shall be
reviewed at least once during a five-year period.
Section 15 The securities exchange shall conduct enforcement investigations
promptly. The securities exchange shall inform the issuers whose recurring
financial information is subject to enforcement.

8

FFFS 2007:17
European cooperation
Section 16 The enforcement shall take into consideration developments that occur
within the framework of EU cooperation. In its enforcement, the securities
exchange shall strive to contribute to a uniform application of international
accounting standards, both in Sweden and in the EEA. The securities exchange
shall assist Finansinspektionen in the European enforcement cooperation.
Actions in the event of infringements
Section 17 The securities exchange shall take actions when infringements in the
recurring financial information are discovered. The actions shall be efficient,
prompt and in proportion to the infringement. Decisions shall be made public
regularly.
Documentation and reporting
Section 18 The securities exchange shall notify Finansinspektionen immediately
after proceedings have been initiated to investigate whether an identified
infringement shall result in action against an issuer.
No later than 1 March every year, the securities exchange shall submit a report to
Finansinspektionen regarding the enforcement of the previous year. As a minimum,
the report shall contain information about the enforcement, the results of the
reviews and how the securities exchange established the set requirements for
monitoring as set forth in Chapter 16, section 13 of the Securities Market Act and
in these regulations.
No later than 1 March every year, the securities exchange shall publish a report
regarding the enforcement the previous year. As a minimum, the report shall
contain information about the enforcement and the results of the reviews.
Section 19 The securities exchange shall document its monitoring procedures. The
securities exchange shall also document enforcement actions taken, including as a
minimum the selection process, review procedures, communication with the issuers
and actions in the event of identified infringements. The documentation shall be
stored in an orderly, secure and transparent manner for at least ten years.

Chapter 6. Market surveillance at a securities institution
Scope
Section 1 A securities institution that has authorisation to operate a MTF or
organise trading with financial instruments in accordance with Chapter 2, section 1,
subsection 1 of the Securities Market Act (2007:528) shall structure or have its
market surveillance structured in such a way that trading in violation of the
Financial Instruments Trading (Market Abuse Penalties) Act (2005:377), other
regulations, the rules of the institution or generally accepted practice on the
securities market can be detected and investigated.
In these regulations, to organise trading through the investment service reception
and transmission of orders refers to such trading in which it is possible for a larger
customer base to participate. In addition, trading shall be of such a scope and
frequency that continuous turnover is attained in the instrument.

9

FFFS 2007:17
The regulations in this chapter shall also apply to a securities exchange that
operates a MTF.
Resources and expertise
Section 2 The securities institution shall have at its disposal sufficient personnel
and expertise to maintain effective monitoring in accordance with section 1, taking
into consideration the type and scope of its market surveillance.
As a minimum, the market surveillance shall have the capacity to:
1. continuously monitor trading and price development
2. assess price development based on information from the mass media and
informational systems, and
3. obtain information, to the extent possible, from issuers, customers and
counterparties, for the purpose of analysing such cases as referred to in section 1.
Section 3 The securities institution shall structure its market surveillance taking
into consideration potential conflicts of interest.
Section 4 The securities institution shall have written instructions and procedures
for market surveillance.
Surveillance
Section 5 As a part of its market surveillance, the securities institution shall have
at its disposal technological systems that continuously register fluctuations in
prices and turnover and signal deviant trading patterns.
For each market or financial instrument, the securities institution shall define and
program into the technological system suitable threshold values for what will be
considered a deviant trading pattern.
If the securities institution, given its type and scope, can conduct effective
surveillance without a technological system referred to in the first paragraph, the
surveillance may be conducted manually. However, as a part of its manual
surveillance, the securities institution shall have defined and documented what
qualifies as a deviant trading pattern.
Documentation and reporting
Section 6 The securities institution shall document adopted investigation actions.
Observations shall be summarised in writing and attested by those responsible for
market monitoring. The documentation shall be stored in an orderly, secure and
transparent manner for at least ten years.
Section 7 The securities institution shall annually report on the implementation of
its surveillance to Finansinspektionen.
Section 8 The securities institution shall promptly notify Finansinspektionen about
financial instrument transactions that are suspected to violate the regulations, the
institution’s regulations or generally accepted practices that apply on the securities
market.

10

FFFS 2007:17
Special rules for reporting obligations are laid down in the Financial Instruments
Trading (Market Abuse Penalties) Act (2005:377) for cases where it can be
assumed that a transaction is or relates to insider trading or undue market
manipulation.

Chapter 7. Post-trade information
Section 1 This chapter contains provisions regarding the obligation to disclose
post-trade information for:
– a securities exchange according to Chapter 13, section 9 of the Securities Market
Act (2007:528),
– an entity that operates a MTF according to Chapter 11, section 9 of the Securities
Market Act,
– a securities institution according to Chapter 9, section 9, subsection 2 of the
Securities Market Act when the transaction was not executed on a regulated market
or a MTF.
Content and time
Financial instruments other than debt instruments and futures and options
contracts related to debt instruments
Section 2 Post-trade information shall be disclosed as soon as possible. The
disclosure of each transaction shall contain the information laid down in Article
27(1)(a) of the Commission Regulation (EC) 1287/2006 of 10 August 2006
implementing Directive 2004/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the
Council.
Debt instruments and futures/forwards and options contracts related to debt
instruments
Section 3 With regard to debt instruments and futures and options contracts
related to debt instruments, the disclosure of every transaction shall as a minimum
contain, instead of the information set out in section 2, information about:
1. a weighted price average with regard to traded volume
during the business day,
2. the highest transaction price during the business day,
3. the lowest transaction price during the business day, and
4. the total volume of all transactions during the business
day.
Section 4 For debt instruments and futures and options contracts related to debt
instruments, post-trade information shall be disclosed at the latest 9:00 AM the day
after the business day instead of the time set out in section 2.
Transaction disclosure
Section 5 Disclosure of a transaction for a financial instrument shall occur
pursuant to Article 30 of the Commission Regulation (EC) 1287/2006.

11

FFFS 2007:17
Exemption
Section 6 Where there is sufficient cause and following a specific application from
a securities exchange or a securities institution or an entity that operates a MTF,
Finansinspektionen can grant an exemption from the requirements in sections 2–6
if it is justified with consideration to trading efficiency.

Chapter 8. Exceptions and exemptions from the obligation to disclose
post-trade information
Securities exchanges and MTFs
Exceptions
Section 1 A securities exchange or an entity that operates a MTF does not need to
fulfil the disclosure obligation pursuant to Chapter 11, section 10 or Chapter 13,
section 10 of the Securities Market Act (2007:528) in cases where they operate a
system according to Articles 17–20 of the Commission Regulation (EC) 1287/2006
of 10 August 2006 implementing Directive 2004/39/EC of the European
Parliament and of the Council.
Exemptions
Section 2 A securities exchange or an entity that operates a MTF can defer
disclosure of information about transactions according to Chapter 11, section 11
and Chapter 13, section 11 of the Securities Market Act (2007:528) if the criteria
laid down in Article 28 of the Commission Regulation (EC) 1287/2006 are met.
Section 3 The securities exchange or the entity that operates a MTF shall establish
a procedure for handling the deferment referred to in section 2. Finansinspektionen
shall approve such a procedure in advance.
Section 4 The securities exchange or the entity that operates a MTF shall clearly
inform market participants and investors about the established procedure for
handling the deferment.

Chapter 9. Systematic internalisers
Section 1 When determining whether a share shall be defined as liquid according
to Article 22(1) of the Commission Regulation (EC) 1287/2006 of 10 August 2006
implementing Directive 2004/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the
Council, both conditions (a) and (b) in the article shall be fulfilled.

Chapter 10. Information requirements for transferable securities
issuers
Section 1 This chapter contains provisions regarding the information requirements
for issuers whose transferable securities, according to Chapter 1, section 4, first
paragraph, subsection 2a or 2b of the Securities Market Act (2007:528), are
admitted to trading on a regulated market after an application from the issuer, and
that have Sweden as their home Member State according to Chapter 2, sections 37–
39 of the Financial Instruments Trading Act (1991:980). The provisions also apply,
12

FFFS 2007:17
with the exception of sections 5 and 6, to an issuer that has filed an application for
official listing or admission to trading regarding his or her transferable securities.
Issuers of transferable securities according to Chapter 1, section 4, first paragraph,
subsections 2a or 2b of the Securities Market Act that do not have Sweden as their
home Member State shall, if the transferable securities are registered or admitted to
trading on a regulated market, apply section 13. If the transferable securities of
such an issuer are not admitted to trading on a regulated market in the issuer’s
home Member State, the issuer shall also apply sections 10, 11, 12 and 16.
The provisions set out in sections 2–4, 10a–12 and 14 shall also apply to issuers
whose transferable securities according to Chapter 1, section 4, first paragraph,
subsection 2a or 2b of the Securities Market Act, are traded on a MTF.
Section 1a An issuer that chooses Sweden as its home Member State according to
Chapter 1, sections 7–9 of the Securities Market Act shall immediately disclose
this in the manner set out in section 10, first paragraph and inform
Finansinspektionen in the manner set out in section 16.
Section 2 The information requirements oblige the issuer to continuously have the
ability to meet these requirements. The issuer shall have financial and reporting
systems that enable fulfilment of the information requirements. The issuer shall
also, when necessary, contractually guarantee that the information requirements
can be fulfilled.
Price sensitive information
Section 3 The issuer shall promptly disclose if a decision is made or if an event
occurs that to a non-negligible extent:
– influences the perception of the issuer, or when an issuer is a parent company, the
group, which has been created from previously disclosed information, or
– in any other way influences the perception of the issuer.
Section 3a When the board of directors has approved the annual financial
statements, the issuer shall promptly publish a press release containing the financial
results.
The press release shall contain the essential information of the coming annual
report.
If the annual accounts are altered such that they differ significantly from what was
presented in the press release, the issuer shall promptly publish the amendments.
Section 4 If an issuer defers a disclosure in accordance with Chapter 15, section 7
of the Securities Market Act, the issuer shall immediately notify the securities
exchange.
To ensure that information is not leaked, the issuer, when applying Chapter 15,
section 7 of the Securities Market Act, shall:
– deny persons access to information they do not need,
– ensure that all persons who have access to such information understand the
related legal obligations and are aware of the sanctions associated with abuse and
improper dissemination of the information,

13

FFFS 2007:17
– immediately disclose such information in the event the issuer has not been able to
guarantee that the involved information is kept confidential.
Issues, etc.
Section 5 If the issuer has taken a decision to issue transferable securities in
accordance with Chapter 1, section 4, first paragraph, subsection 2a or 2b of the
Securities Market Act, it shall immediately disclose and notify the securities
exchange of this decision, the reason for the issue, the issue terms and to whom the
issue is directed. The same obligation applies to issues in subsidiaries that shall be
approved at the annual general meeting of the parent company.
An issuer shall also disclose announcements about how dividends shall be
distributed and paid.
Section 6 Where an issuer of transferable securities in accordance with section 1
proposes to change its articles of association, statutes or similar, it shall
communicate the draft amendment to the securities exchange where the
transferable securities are admitted to trading and to Finansinspektionen.
Such communication shall be effected without delay, but at the latest on the date of
the convening of the general meeting or the meeting which is to vote on the
proposed amendment.
An issuer that is not allowed to register a decision to change the articles of
association before Finansinspektionen has approved the change does not need to
file a proposal with Finansinspektionen in accordance with this provision.
Municipality
Section 7 Sections 5 and 6 shall not be applied to states, municipalities or public
agencies that have issued transferable securities.
Public offer to acquire shares, etc.
Section 8 If the issuer is preparing to submit a public offer to acquire shares or
financial instruments as set out in section 2 of the Reporting Duty for Certain
Holdings of Financial Instruments Act (2000:1087) in a limited liability company,
the issuer shall immediately notify the securities exchange when there is reasonable
cause that the preparation will lead to such an offer.
Section 9 An issuer shall also immediately notify the securities exchange if it has
been informed that a party will submit to its owners a public offer to acquire shares
or such financial instruments as set out in section 2 of the Reporting Duty for
Certain Holdings of Financial Instruments Act (2000:1087)..
Disclosure, etc.
Section 10 An issuer shall ensure that a disclosure of information pursuant to
Chapter 17, section 2 of the Securities Market Act shall take place in such a
manner that the information is effectively disseminated to the public in Sweden and
in other states within the EEA as simultaneously as possible.

14

FFFS 2007:17
Other information outlined in this chapter shall be disclosed by being made
available on the issuer’s website.
Section 10a An issuer whose transferable securities in accordance with Chapter 1,
section 4, first paragraph, subsection 2a or 2b of the Securities Market Act are
traded on a MTF, shall ensure that the disclosure of information takes place in such
a manner that the information is effectively disseminated to the public.
Section 11 When information is submitted to the media for disclosure pursuant to
Chapter 4, section 20 of the Financial Instruments Trading Act (1991:980) or
Chapter 17, section 3 of the Securities Market Act, it shall be clarified that the
information being disclosed is the sort of information that must be made public by
the issuer pursuant to these acts (alt. in accordance with this legislation). It shall
also be stated which issuer the information refers to, the type of information and
the date and time when the information was distributed to the media for
publication.
Information distributed to the media for disclosure shall be submitted as unedited
and complete text. However, information that shall be disclosed pursuant to
Chapter 16, sections 4–7 of the Securities Market Act, can be submitted by the
issuer notifying the media, in addition to the storage according to Chapter 17,
section 5 of the same Act, on which the information is available.
Information shall be submitted to the media for disclosure in a manner that is
secure from the risk of distortion and unauthorised access as well as identifies
where the information originates.
Problems or disruptions that arise in conjunction with the submission of
information to the media for disclosure shall be resolved immediately.
Section 12 Information disclosed pursuant to section 10, first paragraph shall also
be promptly published on the issuer’s website. The information shall be available
on the issuer’s website for at least 3 years.
Significant changes to previously published information shall be disclosed
promptly after the change has occurred. This shall take place via the same channels
that were used for the original information.
Section 13 An issuer that shall disclose information pursuant to Chapter 17 of the
Securities Market Act or otherwise according to these regulations, shall disclose
information in accordance with the following provisions regarding language.
An issuer that has chosen Sweden as its home Member State:
a) if the issuer’s transferable securities according to section 1 are admitted to
trading only on a Swedish regulated market, the information shall be disclosed in
Swedish.
b) if the issuer’s transferable securities according to section 1 are admitted to
trading on a Swedish regulated market and on a regulated market in one or more
other states within the EEA, the information shall be disclosed in Swedish and in
either English or a language approved by the competent authorities in the state(s).
c) if the issuer’s transferable securities according to section 1 are not admitted to
trading on a Swedish regulated market but only on a regulated market in one or
more other states within the EEA, the information shall be disclosed in Swedish,
English or a language approved by the competent authorities in the state(s).

15

FFFS 2007:17
A state that has another state within the EEA as its home Member State shall
disclose the information in Swedish or English.
An issuer of transferable securities according to Chapter 1, section 4, first
paragraph, subsection 2a or 2b of the Securities Market Act, the nominal value per
unit of which on the issue day is at least EUR 50,000, shall, regardless of that set
out in the first-third paragraphs, disclose the information in Swedish, English or in
a language approved by the competent authorities where the transferable securities
are admitted to trading.
An issuer may disclose information in other languages than those prescribed in this
provision. Where special cause exists, Finansinspektionen may grant an exemption
from the provisions set forth in the first-fourth paragraphs.
The first-third paragraphs do not apply to information covered by the provisions in
Chapter 5, section 13.
Section 14 The issuer may not combine the disclosure of information that shall be
submitted pursuant to these regulations with the marketing of its own operations, if
this can be misleading.
Section 15 An issuer whose transferable securities according to section 1 are
admitted to trading on a Swedish regulated market, shall, if the transferable
securities are also admitted to trading on a foreign regulated market, also file
information with the Swedish regulated market for disclosure at the same time as
the information is disclosed in the foreign regulated market pursuant to section 3.
With regard to a municipality, it is sufficient to file information with the Swedish
regulated market.
The issuer shall ensure that the disclosure occurs as simultaneously as possible in
the Member States within the European Union where the issuer has requested or
approved that the transferable security is admitted to trading on a regulated market.
Obligation to file information by electronic means
Section 16 Information filed with Finansinspektionen pursuant to Chapter 17,
section 4 of the Securities Market Act shall be filed by electronic means via an
assigned location on Finansinspektionen’s website and in accordance with the
detailed instructions for the format and procedures provided by the authority. In
conjunction with the filing, the authenticity of the sender’s identity and information
shall be safeguarded using electronic identification.

Chapter 11. Issuers without a registered office in the EEA
Requirements on information about the annual general meeting
Section 1 The requirements in a foreign regulation referred to in Chapter 18,
sections 8 and 9 of the Securities Market Act (2007:528) shall be considered
equivalent to the provisions in Chapter 18, sections 5 and 11 of the same Act if the
issuer as a minimum is required to notify about the time, place and agenda for the
meeting or annual general meeting.

16

FFFS 2007:17
Requirements on periodic financial information
Section 2 The requirements in a foreign regulation referred to in Chapter 16,
section 11 of the Securities Market Act shall, with regard to the content of the
annual report’s directors’ report, are considered to be equivalent to the
requirements in the Transparency Directive if the foreign regulation requires that
the report of the directors shall, as a minimum, contain the following information:
a) a true and fair account of the performance of the issuer’s operations, earnings
and financial position, combined with a description of the most important risks and
factors of uncertainty that the issuer is facing, such that the account presents a
balanced and complete assessment in agreement with the size and complexity of
the business operations. Where required for an understanding of the issuer’s
performance, earnings or position, the assessments shall include both financial and,
where appropriate, non-financial key ratios relevant for the business operations in
question,
b) information about significant events for the firm that occurred after the end of
the financial year,
c) information about the issuer’s expected future performance.
Section 3 The requirements in a foreign regulation referred to in Chapter 16,
section 11 of the Securities Market Act, with regard to the content of interim
information, shall be considered equivalent to the requirements in the Transparency
Directive if foreign regulations require, in addition to interim information, a brief
summary of the accounts and that the interim information must contain the
following information:
a) the period the information refers to,
b) information about the issuer’s expected future performance during the remaining
six months of the financial year,
c) with regard to issuers of shares, major transactions with related parties if this
information is not reported on a regular basis.
Section 4 The requirements in a foreign regulation referred to in Chapter 16,
section 11 of the Securities Market Act, with regard to interim reports, shall be
considered equivalent to those in the Transparency Directive if the foreign
regulation requires that the issuer must publish interim reports.
Section 5 The requirements in a foreign regulation referred to in Chapter 16,
section 11 of the Securities Market Act, with regard to the signing and attestation
of an annual report or half-yearly report, shall be considered equivalent to those in
the Transparency Directive if the foreign regulation requires that one or more
persons at the issuer are responsible for the annual report and the interim report,
and in particular for the following:
a) that the financial reports fulfil the requirements in applicable reporting
frameworks or accounting standards,
b) that the description of the operations included in the financial reports is fair.
Section 6 The requirements in a foreign regulation referred to in Chapter 16,
section 11 of the Securities Market Act, with regard to consolidated accounts, shall
be considered equivalent to those in the Transparency Directive if the foreign
regulation does not require that the parent company prepares annual financial
statements, but rather requires that an issuer with a registered office in the state
shall include the following information in its consolidated accounts:
a) for issuers of shares, calculation of dividends and the ability to pay dividends.

17

FFFS 2007:17
b) for all issuers, where applicable, minimum capital requirements, equity and
liquidity issues.
To fulfil the equivalence requirement, the issuer shall also be able to provide the
competent authority in its home Member State with additional audited information
that only contains information relating to the issuer’s annual financial statements
and relevant information pursuant to the first paragraph, subsections a and b. This
information may be prepared in accordance with the accounting standards in the
state in question.
Section 7 The requirements in a foreign regulation referred to in Chapter 16,
section 11 of the Securities Market Act, with regard to annual financial statements,
shall be considered equivalent to those in the Transparency Directive if the foreign
regulation requires that an issuer does not need to prepare a consolidated account,
but rather shall prepare annual financial statements either in accordance with:
– international accounting standards adopted in accordance with Article 3 of
Directive (EC) 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council and
applicable within the Community, or
– national accounting standards in a third country that are equivalent to such
standards.
Where the financial information does not comply with such standards, restated
annual financial statements shall be prepared to ensure equivalence. These
financial statements must also be audited separately.

Chapter 12. Notification and publication of information related to
shareholdings
Scope
Section 1 This chapter contains provisions regarding the obligation to file and
disclose information about changes to holdings of shares and other financial
instruments regulated in Chapter 4 of the Financial Instruments Trading Act
(1991:980).
A limited liability company’s disclosure and filing of information with
Finansinspektionen
Section 2 When a limited liability company discloses information pursuant to
Chapter 4, section 9, first paragraph or section 18, of the Financial Instruments
Trading Act (1991:980), it shall follow the provisions in Chapter 10, section 10,
first paragraph and section 11 of these regulations.
Section 3 Information referred to in Chapter 4, section 1, third paragraph, section
9, first paragraph and section 18 of the Financial Instruments Trading Act shall be
disclosed in Swedish, Danish, Norwegian or English.
Where special cause exists, Finansinspektionen may grant an exemption from the
provisions set forth in the first paragraph.
Section 4 When a limited liability company submits information with
Finansinspektionen pursuant to Chapter 4, section 21 of the Financial Instruments
18

FFFS 2007:17
Trading Act, it shall follow the provisions in Chapter 10, section 16 of these
regulations.
Regulations for holders
Market maker
Section 5 If a market maker intends to utilise the exception in Chapter 4, section
14 of the Financial Instruments Trading Act, it shall notify Finansinspektionen that
it is trading or intends to trade in its capacity as a market maker for a specific
issuer. This type of notification shall be filed immediately, although at the latest the
trading day after trading has commenced. The market maker shall also notify
Finansinspektionen when it ceases to be a market maker for a specific issuer.
Exceptions from aggregation of holdings for certain parent companies
Section 6 In order for exceptions to the aggregation of holdings of parent
companies and subsidiaries to apply pursuant to Chapter 4, sections 16 and 17 of
the Financial Instruments Trading Act, the conditions under a and b shall be
fulfilled.
a) The parent company may not through direct or indirect instructions or in any
other way intervene when a subsidiary that is a UCITS or a securities institution
utilises its voting rights.
Direct instructions refer to all instructions issued by the parent company, or by
another firm controlled by the parent company, and refer to how the UCITS or
securities institution in individual cases shall utilise its voting rights.
Indirect instructions refer to all general or specific instructions, regardless of form,
issued by the parent company, or by another firm controlled by the parent
company, for the purpose of limiting the UCITS’ or securities institution’s freedom
to utilise its voting rights in order to benefit certain business interests of the parent
company or other firm controlled by the parent company.
b) A UCITS or securities institution that is a subsidiary shall independently of the
parent company be free to exercise the voting rights associated with the assets it
manages.
Section 7 A parent company that would like to utilise the exception set forth in
Chapter 4, sections 16 and 17 of the Financial Instruments Trading Act shall,
without delay, file the following information with Finansinspektionen:
a) a list of the names of the subsidiaries that are UCITS or securities institutions,
including information about which competent authorities supervise them.
b) a declaration that the parent company meets the requirements set out in section
6, subsection a with regard to every such UCITS or securities institution.
Section 8 The parent company shall update the list in accordance with section 7,
subsection a on a regular basis.

19

FFFS 2007:17
Short holding period related to clearing and settlement
Section 9 The short holding period referred to in Chapter 4, section 12, subsection
1 of the Financial Instruments Trading Act, may, at the most, total three trading
days from the day of the transaction.
Notification content
Section 10 A notification of acquisition or disposal of shares or certificates of
deposit within the scope of Chapter 4, section 2, first paragraph, subsection 1 of the
Financial Instruments Trading Act shall contain information concerning:
1. the notifier’s name, civic registration number or other identification number or,
if the notifier is a legal person, the firm, company registration number or other
identification number and address,
2. the issuer’s name,
3. percentage of all shares and voting rights after the transaction,
4. number and class of shares after the transaction,
5. where applicable, the chain of controlling firms through which the voting rights
are held,
6. the date when the threshold value was reached, exceeded or fell below,
7. the shareholder’s identity, even if the shareholder pursuant to Chapter 4, section
3 of the Financial Instruments Trading Act does not have the right to exercise the
voting rights, and
8. if the shareholder according to Chapter 4, section 3 of the Financial Instruments
Trading Act does not have the right to exercise the voting rights, then the natural or
legal person that has the right to exercise the voting rights on behalf of the
shareholder shall be indicated.
Section 11 A notification of acquisition or disposal of such financial instruments
as referred to in Chapter 4, section 2, first paragraph, subsection 2 of the Financial
Instruments Trading Act shall contain information concerning:
1. the notifier’s name, civic registration number or other identification number
or, if the notifier is a legal person, the firm, company registration number or other
identification number and address,
2. holdings of voting rights after the transaction,
3. number and class of financial instruments after the transaction,
4. where applicable, the chain of controlling firms through which the financial
instruments are held,
5. the date when the threshold value was reached, exceeded or fell below,
6. for an instrument with an exercise period where applicable, information about
the day or period when the shares shall or can be acquired,
7. the maturity or expiration of the instrument,
8. the identity of the holder, and
9. the name of the underlying issuer.
Language
Section 12 A notification filed pursuant to Chapter 4, section 3 or section 9,
second paragraph of the Financial Instruments Trading Act, shall be prepared in
Swedish, Danish, Norwegian or English.

20

FFFS 2007:17
Where special cause exists, Finansinspektionen may grant an exception from the
provisions set forth in the first paragraph.
Electronic filing of the notification with Finansinspektionen
Section 13 If a notification pursuant to Chapter 4, section 3 or section 9, second
paragraph of the Financial Instruments Trading Act is filed with
Finansinspektionen by electronic means, it shall be filed at the specified location
on Finansinspektionen’s website and in accordance with the instructions regarding
format and procedures provided by the authority. In conjunction with the filing, the
authenticity of the sender’s identity and information shall be safeguarded using
electronic identification.
Exception for shares issued by companies without a registered office in the
EEA
Section 14 The requirements in a foreign regulation referred to in Chapter 4,
section 23 of the Financial Instruments Trading Act shall be considered equivalent
to those laid down in Article 15 of the Transparency Directive if the limited
liability company is required to disclose the total number of voting rights and the
total amount of capital to the public at the latest 30 calendar days after these totals
have increased or decreased.
Section 15 The requirements in a foreign regulation referred to in Chapter 4,
section 24 of the Financial Instruments Trading Act shall be considered equivalent
to those laid down in Article 14 of the Transparency Directive if, in accordance
with the requirements, an issuer with a registered office in the state shall fulfil the
following conditions:
a) an issuer allowed to hold up to a maximum of five per cent of its own shares to
which voting rights are attached shall announce every time the threshold value is
reached, exceeded or falls below.
b) an issuer allowed to hold up to a maximum of between five and ten per cent of
its own shares to which voting rights are attached shall announce every time the
five per cent or the maximum permissible threshold value is reached, exceeded or
falls below.
c) an issuer allowed to hold more than ten per cent of its own shares to which
voting rights are attached shall announce every time the five per cent threshold
value or ten per cent threshold value is reached, exceeded or falls below.

Chapter 13. Acquisition and disposal of own shares by limited liability
companies
Section 1 The provisions in this chapter shall be applied by a Swedish limited
liability company whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market that
acquires or disposes of own shares.
Section 2 A limited liability company referred to in section 1 shall register trading
in own shares to a Swedish securities exchange where the shares are admitted to
trading on a regulated market.
This type of notification shall have been received by the securities exchange at the
latest 30 minutes before the opening of the securities exchange on the trading day
immediately following when the agreement regarding acquisition or disposal of
shares in the company was signed.

21

FFFS 2007:17
Section 3 The notification pursuant to section 2 shall contain information
concerning:
– the date of the transaction,
– the number of shares acquired or disposed of divided by class,
– the price that was paid or received per share,
– the limited liability company’s actual holdings of own shares,
– the total number of shares in the company.
Section 4 The securities exchange shall disclose on its website information about
the trading in own shares reported pursuant to section 2.

Chapter 14. The Swedish Securities Council decides in certain issues
about public takeovers on the stock market and publishes certain such
decisions
Transfer of management information to the Swedish Securities Council
Section 1 The Swedish Securities Council shall make decisions in issues referred
to in Chapter 2, section 3, second paragraph, Chapter 3, section 4 and Chapter 7,
sections 4 and 5 of the Stock Market (Takeover Bids) Act (2006:451).
Publication of Swedish Securities Council decisions
Section 2 The Swedish Securities Council shall publish its decisions pursuant to
Chapter 7, sections 4 and 5 of the Stock Market (Takeover Bids) Act (2006:451) if
the decision means that the application is fully or partially granted.
The Council announces the decision via publication on its website.
_______________

Entry into force provisions
1. These regulations enter into force on 1 November 2007, when the following
Finansinspektionen regulations and general guidelines shall cease to apply:
– Finansinspektionen’s Regulations (FFFS 1995:43) governing official listing of
transferable securities, etc.
– Finansinspektionen’s Regulations (FFFS 1998:16) governing disciplinary boards
for securities exchanges,
– Finansinspektionen’s Regulations (FFFS 2001:5) governing market surveillance
at securities exchanges, authorised marketplaces and securities institutions,
– Finansinspektionen’s Regulations (FFFS 2005:6) governing acquisition and
disposal of own shares by limited liability companies,
– Finansinspektionen’s Regulations (FFFS 2006:4) governing that the Swedish
Securities Council shall decide on certain issues pertaining to public takeovers in
the securities market and publish certain such decisions.
2. With regard to exemptions pursuant to Chapter 3, section 6 of FFFS 1995:43 and
Chapter 2, section 3 of FFFS 2001:5 granted before the entry into force, old
regulations apply.
22

FFFS 2007:17

GENT JANSSON

Carina Larsson

23

FFFS 2007:17
Appendix 1a

Ownership assessment – natural person
1. State which firm the acquisition relates to and what percentage of the shares and
voting rights in the firm is intended to be acquired.
2. Do you or a close relation 1 own shares in the firm or in another firm, which in
turn owns shares in the firm referred to in question 1?
3. Append a description or outline of the ownership structure in the group pre- and
post-acquisition, with ownership shares stated in per cent.
4. Do you or a close relation 1 have any other financial relationships with the firm?
5. Have you been the subject of a suitability assessment by a foreign supervisory
authority within the past year? If yes, please explain.
6. During the past five years, have you been a board member, alternate board
member, managing director or deputy managing director in a firm which is under
the supervision of Finansinspektionen or an equivalent foreign supervisory
authority? Has this firm been subject to sanctions from a supervisory authority? If
yes, please explain the circumstances.
7. Have you entered into personal bankruptcy in Sweden or in a foreign country? If
yes, please explain.
8. Have you been a board member or held a senior position in a firm that has been
the subject of a composition or company reorganisation or was placed into
insolvent liquidation or the equivalent in Sweden or in a foreign country? If yes,
please state the firm’s name and explain the circumstances.
9. During the past five years, have you been convicted by a Swedish or foreign
court for any crime in respect of which imprisonment is included in the range of
penalties specified for the crime? If yes, please explain the circumstances.
10. Would you like to state any other facts or circumstances which might be of
relevance in the assessment of this matter?
Note: As a part of the ownership assessment, Finansinspektionen will collaborate
with e.g. Rikspolisstyrelsen (Swedish National Police Board), Bolagsverket
(Swedish Companies Registration Office), Skatteverket (Swedish National Tax
Board), Kronofogdemyndigheten (Swedish Enforcement Authority) and
Upplysningscentralen UC AB (UC AB).

The undersigned hereby certifies that the above information is correct and
complete.
Date:

1

Close relation refers to e.g. a spouse, cohabitee, child, parent or other relation with whom
you share living accommodations.

24

FFFS 2007:17
…………………………………
Name:
Address, telephone number:
Civic registration number/date of birth:

25

FFFS 2007:17
Appendix 1b

Ownership assessment – legal person
1. State the applicant firm’s name, company registration number and address. A
registration certificate for the firm not more than two months old and the firm’s
most recent audited annual report should also be appended.
2. State which firm the acquisition relates to and what percentage of the shares and
voting rights in the firm is intended to be acquired.
3. Append a description or outline of the entire ownership chain in the group, preand post-acquisition, with ownership shares stated in per cent.
4. State the other firms in the group that are under the supervision of
Finansinspektionen or a corresponding foreign authority.
5. During the past year, has the firm been the subject of a suitability assessment by
a foreign supervisory authority? If yes, please explain.
6. Would you like to state any other facts or circumstances which might be of
relevance in the assessment of this matter?
Note: As a part of the ownership assessment, Finansinspektionen will collaborate
with e.g. Bolagsverket (Swedish Companies Registration Office), Skatteverket
(Swedish National Tax Board) and Kronofogdemyndigheten (Swedish
Enforcement Authority).

The undersigned hereby certifies that the above information is correct and
complete.

Date:

…………………………………
Authorised signatory:
Telephone number:

26

FFFS 2007:17
Appendix 1c

Management assessment – in conjunction with an ownership
assessment
1. What experience and competence do you have within the financial sector?
Please attach a copy of your curriculum vitae.
2. Which firm does the management assessment relate to?
3. Have you previously been board chairman, board member or alternate board
member in a firm where one or more board members were not discharged from
liability? If yes, state which firm(s).
4. Have you been the subject of a suitability assessment by a foreign supervisory
authority within the past year? If yes, please explain.
5. During the past five years, have you been dismissed from a financial institution?
6. During the past five years, have you been a board member, alternate board
member, managing director or deputy managing director in a firm which is under
the supervision of Finansinspektionen or an equivalent foreign supervisory
authority? Has this firm been subject to sanctions from a supervisory authority? If
yes to either of the above questions, please explain the circumstances.
7. Have you entered into personal bankruptcy in Sweden or in a foreign country? If
yes, please explain.
8. Have you been a board member or held a senior position in a firm that has been
the subject of a composition or company reorganisation or was placed into
insolvent liquidation or the equivalent in Sweden or in a foreign country? If yes,
please state the firm’s name and explain the circumstances.
9. During the past five years, have you been convicted by a Swedish or foreign
court for any crime in respect of which imprisonment is included in the range of
penalties specified for the crime? If yes, please explain.
10. Would you like to state any other facts or circumstances which might be of
relevance in the assessment of this matter?
Note: As a part of the management assessment, Finansinspektionen will collaborate
with e.g. Rikspolisstyrelsen (Swedish National Police Board), Bolagsverket
(Swedish Companies Registration Office), Skatteverket (Swedish National Tax
Board), Kronofogdemyndigheten (Swedish Enforcement Authority) and
Upplysningscentralen UC AB (UC AB).

The undersigned hereby certifies that the above information is correct and
complete.
Date:

27

FFFS 2007:17
………………………………………
Name:
Address, telephone number:
Civic registration number/date of birth:

28

FFFS 2007:17
Appendix 2a

Management assessment – questions for board members and alternate
board members
1. What experience and competence do you have within the financial sector?
Please attach a copy of your curriculum vitae.
2. Which firm does the management assessment relate to?
3. Are you employed by a firm other than the firm referred to in question 2? If yes,
state your position.
4. Are you board chairman, board member or alternate board member in a firm
other than that referred to in question 2? If yes, state which firm(s).
5. Have you previously been board chairman, board member or alternate board
member in a firm where one or more board members were not discharged from
liability? If yes, state which firm(s).
6. Do you directly or indirectly own shares in the firm referred to in question 2, or
in any other firm, which represent 10 per cent or more of the share capital or voting
capital? If yes, state in which firm(s).
7. Do you directly or indirectly own shares in the firm referred to in question 2, or
in any other firm, which represent less than 10 per cent, but where the holding can
still be considered to carry a significant influence on the management of the firm?
If yes, state in which firm(s).
8. Do you or a close relation 2 have any other financial relationships with the firm
referred to in question 2?
9. Do you have any other function in the firm referred to in question 2 or in the
group/financial group?
10. Have you been the subject of a suitability assessment by a foreign supervisory
authority within the past year? If yes, please explain.
11. During the past five years, have you been dismissed from a financial
institution?
12. During the past five years, have you been a board member, alternate board
member, managing director or deputy managing director in a firm which is under
the supervision of Finansinspektionen or an equivalent foreign supervisory

2

Close relation refers to e.g. a spouse, cohabitee, child, parent or other relation with whom
you share living accommodations.

29

FFFS 2007:17
authority? Has this firm been subject to sanctions from a supervisory authority? If
yes to either of the above questions, please explain the circumstances.
13. Have you entered into personal bankruptcy in Sweden or in a foreign country?
If yes, please explain.
14. Have you been a board member or held a senior position in a firm that has been
the subject of a composition or company reorganisation or was placed into
insolvent liquidation or the equivalent in Sweden or in a foreign country? If yes,
please state the firm’s name and explain the circumstances.
15. During the past five years, have you been convicted by a Swedish or foreign
court for any crime in respect of which imprisonment is included in the range of
penalties specified for the crime? If yes, please explain.
16. Would you like to state any other facts or circumstances which might be of
relevance in the assessment of this matter?

Note: As a part of the management assessment, Finansinspektionen will collaborate
with e.g. Rikspolisstyrelsen (Swedish National Police Board), Bolagsverket
(Swedish Companies Registration Office), Skatteverket (Swedish National Tax
Board), Kronofogdemyndigheten (Swedish Enforcement Authority) and
Upplysningscentralen UC AB (UC AB).

The undersigned hereby certifies that the above information is correct and
complete.
Date:

………………………………………
Name:
Address, telephone number:
Civic registration number/date of birth:

30

FFFS 2007:17
Appendix 2b

Management assessment – questions for the managing director and
deputy managing director
1. What experience and competence do you have within the financial sector?
Please attach a copy of your curriculum vitae.
2. Which firm does the management assessment relate to?
3. Are you managing director or deputy managing director in a firm other than the
firm referred to in question 2? If yes, state which firm(s).
4. Are you employed by a firm other than the firm referred to in question 2? If yes,
state in which firm(s) and your position(s).
5. Are you board chairman, board member or alternate board member in a firm
other than that referred to in question 2? If yes, state which firm(s).
6. Have you previously been board chairman, board member or alternate board
member in a firm where one or more board members were not discharged from
liability? If yes, state which firm(s).
7. Do you directly or indirectly own shares in the firm referred to in question 2, or
in any other firm, which represent 10 per cent or more of the share capital or voting
capital? If yes, state which firm(s).
8. Do you directly or indirectly own shares in the firm referred to in question 2, or
in any other firm, which represent less than 10 per cent but where the holding can
still be considered to carry a significant influence on the management of the firm?
If yes, state which firm(s).
9. Do you or a close relation 3 have any other financial relationships with the firm
referred to in question 2?
10. Do you have any other function in the firm referred to in question 2 or in the
group or financial group?
11. Have you been the subject of a suitability assessment by a foreign supervisory
authority within the past year? If yes, please explain.
12. During the past five years, have you been dismissed from a financial company?

3

Close relation refers to e.g. a spouse, cohabitee, child, parent or other relation with whom
you share living accommodations.

31

FFFS 2007:17
13. During the past five years, have you been a board member, alternate board
member, managing director or deputy managing director in a firm which is under
the supervision of Finansinspektionen or an equivalent foreign supervisory
authority? Has this firm been subject to sanctions from a supervisory authority? If
yes to either of the above questions, please explain the circumstances.
14. Have you entered into personal bankruptcy in Sweden or in a foreign country?
If yes, please explain the circumstances.
15. Have you been a board member or held a senior position in a firm that has been
the subject of a composition or company reorganisation or was placed into
insolvent liquidation or the equivalent in Sweden or a foreign country? If yes,
please state the firm’s name and explain the circumstances.
16. During the past five years, have you been convicted by a Swedish or foreign
court for any crime in respect of which imprisonment is included in the range of
penalties specified for the crime? If yes, please explain the circumstances.
17. Would you like to state any other facts or circumstances which might be of
relevance in the assessment of this matter?

Note: As a part of the management assessment, Finansinspektionen will collaborate
with e.g. Rikspolisstyrelsen (Swedish National Police Board), Bolagsverket
(Swedish Companies Registration Office), Skatteverket (Swedish National Tax
Board), Kronofogdemyndigheten (Swedish Enforcement Authority) and
Upplysningscentralen UC AB (UC AB).

The undersigned hereby certifies that the above information is correct and
complete.

Date:

………………………………………
Name:
Address, telephone number:
Civic registration number/date of birth:

32

FFFS 2007:17
Appendix 3

Simplified ownership and management assessment for persons who
have previously been subject to an ownership or management
assessment during the past 365 days
1. Has anything changed with regards to the information submitted during
Finansinspektionen’s most recent ownership or management assessment? If yes,
please specify.
Note: As a part of an ownership and management assessment, Finansinspektionen
will collaborate with e.g. Rikspolisstyrelsen (Swedish National Police Board),
Bolagsverket (Swedish Companies Registration Office), Skatteverket (Swedish
National Tax Board), Kronofogdemyndigheten (Swedish Enforcement Authority)
and Upplysningscentralen UC AB (UC AB).

The undersigned hereby certifies that the above information is correct and
complete.

Date:

………………………………………

Name/authorised signatory:
Address, telephone number:
Civic registration number/date of birth/company registration number:

33

FFFS 2007:17

34

FFFS 2007:17

Finansinspektionen’s Regulations
Publisher: Finansinspektionen, Sweden, www.fi.se
ISSN 1102-7460
This translation is furnished for information purposes only and is not itself a legal document.

CONTENTS

FFFS 2007:17

Chapter 1. Scope
Chapter 2. Ownership and management assessment
Scope
Written information to Finansinspektionen
Ownership assessment
Management assessment
Other provisions

Chapter 3. Official listing
Chapter 4. Disciplinary board
Chapter 5. Market surveillance at a securities exchange
Scope
Resources and expertise
Monitoring trade and price formation
Monitoring participants
Monitoring the issuer’s information obligations
Monitoring financial instruments
Monitoring documentation and reporting
Monitoring recurring financial information

Chapter 6. Market surveillance at a securities institution
Scope
Resources and expertise
Surveillance
Documentation and reporting

Chapter 7. Post-trade information
Content and time
Transaction disclosure
Exemption

1
1
1
2
2
2
3

3
4
6
6
7
7
7
7
7
8
8

9
9
10
10
10

11
11
11
12

Chapter 8. Exceptions and exemptions from the obligation to disclose
post-trade information
12
Securities exchanges and MTFs

Chapter 9. Systematic internalisers
Chapter 10. Information requirements for transferable securities
issuers
Price sensitive information
Issues, etc.
Municipality
Public offer to acquire shares, etc.
Disclosure, etc.
Obligation to file information by electronic means

Chapter 11. Issuers without a registered office in the EEA
Requirements on information about the annual general meeting
Requirements on periodic financial information

Chapter 12. Notification and publication of information related to
shareholdings
Scope
A limited liability company’s disclosure and filing of information with
Finansinspektionen

12

12
12
13
14
14
14
14
16

16
16
17

18
18
18

35

FFFS 2007:17
Regulations for holders
19
Exception for shares issued by companies without a registered office in the
EEA
21

Chapter 13. Acquisition and disposal of own shares by limited liability
companies
21
Chapter 14. The Swedish Securities Council decides in certain issues
about public takeovers on the stock market and publishes certain such
decisions
22
Transfer of management information to the Swedish Securities Council
Publication of Swedish Securities Council decisions

22
22

Entry into force provisions
22
Ownership assessment – natural person
24
Ownership assessment – legal person
26
Management assessment – in conjunction with an ownership
assessment
27
Management assessment – questions for board members and alternate
board members
29
Management assessment – questions for the managing director and
deputy managing director
31
Simplified ownership and management assessment for persons who
have previously been subject to an ownership or management
assessment during the past 365 days
33

36


